Preparation and Properties of Aqueous Castor Oil-based Polyurethane–Silica Nanocomposite Dispersions through a Sol–Gel Process Waterborne castor oil-based polyurethane–silica nanocomposites with the polymer matrix and silica nanoparticles chemically bonded have been successfully prepared through a sol–gel process. The formation of silica nanoparticles in water not only reinforces the resulting coatings, but also increases the crosslink density of the nanocomposites. The 29Si solid state NMR spectrum indicates the formation of silica and the TEM indicates that the nanoparticles are embedded in the polymers, resembling a core–shell structure. The silica nanoparticles in the polymer matrix play an important role in improving both the mechanical properties and the thermal stabilities of the resulting nanocomposites. This work provides an effective and promising way to prepare biorenewable, high performance nanocomposite coatings. [" Polymers from renewable resources have received much attention during the past decade, due to finite petroleum resources and environmental concerns.
1 Vegetable oils represent one of the most promising routes to biorenewable polymers due to their ready availability and many versatile applications.
2 Polyurethanes (PUs), one of the most versatile classes of polymers, have been prepared from vegetable oils3 through vegetable oil-based polyols4 or vegetable oil-based diisocyanates.
5 Recently, vegetable oil-based anionic and cationic waterborne PU dispersions have also successfully been prepared in our group by employing dimethylol propionic acid (DMPA)6 and N-methyldiethanolamine (MDEA),7 respectively, in the PU backbone, followed by neutralization with triethylamine (TEA) or acetic acid.
 Compared to conventional solvent-based PUs, waterborne PUs have many advantages, including low viscosity at high molecular weight, good applicability, and the fact that they are environmentally-friendly due to low hazardous air pollutants (HAPs) and low volatile organic chemicals (VOCs).8  Organic–inorganic nanocomposites have been developed to combine the desirable properties of polymers, such as toughness and elasticity, with those of inorganic fillers, including rigidity, high thermal stability, and chemical resistance.
9 The interface interaction between the polymer network and the filler is dominant in the nanocomposites' properties.
 The interaction is either physical and weak, such as hydrogen bonding, or strong, such as chemical covalent bonding.
 The strong interaction is preferred, because it can decrease the extent of phase separation or increase the compatibility of the polymer filler interaction.
10 Silica nanoparticles, which can be introduced into the polymer systems by blending, a sol–gel process, or in situ polymerization,10 have been widely used to improve the thermal stability, and mechanical and electrical properties of nanocomposites.
11 The sol–gel process, involving the hydrolysis and polycondensation reactions of silicon alkoxides, has been used as an effective and simple way to prepare waterborne PU–silica nanocomposite dispersions.
12 Recently, linseed oil-based polyols containing silica nanoparticles prepared by a sol–gel process have been further reacted with toluene-2,4-diisocyanate to obtain silica embedded PUs with better thermal stability and antibacterial properties.
13  In this study, alkoxysilane-containing PUs have been prepared by reacting different and excess amounts of 3-aminopropyl triethoxysilane (APTES) with isocyanate-capped castor oil-based PU prepolymers, and these have been dispersed in water to form silica nanoparticles by a sol–gel process.
 The castor oil-based PU is chemically bonded with the silica nanoparticles and the crosslink density of the nanocomposites is increased substantially.
 The increased crosslink density and reinforcement by the silica result in improved thermal stability and enhanced mechanical properties.
 The nanocomposites obtained may find applications in high-performance organic-inorganic hybrid coatings.
"].
  Figure 1 shows the solid state 29Si NMR spectra of PU–Si2. Unmodified silica usually has a chemical shift around –100 ppm and the silica prepared from methyltriethoxysilane (MTES) has a chemical shift around –60 ppm.
14 PU–Si2 has a chemical shift similar to the silica prepared from MTES, indicating the successful formation of silica nanoparticles from the APTES.
 Specifically, three peaks are observed as shown in Figure 1. The right peak results from the full condensation of the silanols.
12, 15 The strong right peak indicates that the degree of silanol condensation is high, suggesting silica clusters are formed.
 The transmission electron microscope (TEM) morphology of the PU–silica nanocomposite dispersions is shown in Figure 2. Pure PU particles in Figure 2a have a gray color.
12 Figure 2 also shows that the silica nanoparticles are mainly embedded in the PU polymers, which can be explained by the hydrophilic carboxylate groups on the PU chains forming on the outside of the particle after adding water, and the silicon alkoxides being located in the core and thus forming silica nanoparticles later.
12 ## Thermal Properties The storage modulus (E′) and tanδ curves as a function of temperature for nanocomposite films with different silica loadings are shown in Figure 3. All of the films are glassy below room temperature and the storage modulus decreases slightly with an increase in the temperature.
 The storage modulus decreases rapidly above 20 °C for all of the samples and a peak maximum is observed in the tanδ curves (α relaxation), which is taken as the glass transition temperature (Tg). The crosslink density (υe) of all of the films can be calculated from the rubbery moduli at 40 °C above Tg using the following equation, according to rubber elasticity theory:16 equation image where E′ is the storage modulus at 40 °C above Tg, R the gas constant, and T is the absolute temperature.
 As summarized in Table 1, the crosslink densities of the nanocomposites increase from 90 to 766 mol · m−3 when the silicon content increases from 0 to 2 wt%. This can be explained by the fact that the silicon alkoxides connected to the PU chains aggregate through a sol–gel process to form silica nanoparticles, thus acting as crosslinks in the nanocomposites.
  The Tgs obtained from DMA are also summarized in Table 1. The Tgs decrease slightly from 50.9 to 47.5 °C, when the silica content increases.
 However, the free volume in the nanocomposites increases due to poor wetting17 and repulsive forces between the silica nanoparticles and the carboxylate groups in the PU chains.
18 The free volume is also increased due to the silica-induced disruption of packing of the hard segments in the PU polymers.
19 The above-mentioned increased free volume compensates for the increased crosslink density, resulting in the slightly decreased Tgs for the nanocomposites.
 Figure 3 also indicates that all of the samples have only one tanδ peak, indicating the homogeneous nature of the nanocomposites.
20  Figure 4 shows the DSC thermograms of the PU–Si nanocomposites.
 The Tgs obtained from DSC are summarized in Table 1. Compared to the sample without silica, all of the nanocomposites have higher Tgs due to increased crosslinking.
 Specifically, the Tg increases from 18.0 to 20.9 °C when the silicon loading increases from 0 to 1.5 wt%, and then drops to 20.2 °C in the nanocomposite PU–Si2, due to competition between the increased crosslinking and the increased free volume of the nanocomposites as mentioned earlier.
 The Tgs obtained from DMA are ≈30 °C higher than the Tgs obtained from DSC.
6 The heat capacity change (ΔCp) at Tg calculated from DSC is summarized in Table 1. The decreased ΔCp at Tg results from the increased crosslink density21 and the increased steric hindrance caused by the silica nanoparticles.
22  Figure 5 shows the TGA curves and their derivative curves for all of the PU–Si nanocomposite films with different silica loadings, and the T10, T50, and Tmax data are summarized in Table 1. Generally, PUs have a relatively low thermal stability, due to the labile urethane bonds, which usually decompose below 300 °C, depending upon the isocyanates and polyols employed.
 In the present study, degradation of all of the samples in the temperature range 150–300 °C can be attributed to dissociation of the urethane bonds to form isocyanates, alcohols, primary and secondary amines, olefins, and carbon dioxide.
23 The following fast degradation process between 300 and 500 °C is attributed to castor oil chain scission.
 The last degradation step above 500 °C corresponds to further thermo-oxidative degradation of the nanocomposites.
 The onset decomposition temperatures of the nanocomposite films are recorded as T10, where 10 wt% mass of the films is lost.
 As summarized in Table 1, T10 increases from 257 to 268 °C as the amount of silicon increases from 0 to 2 wt%. Furthermore, T50 and Tmax (the maximum degradation temperatures) both increase with increased silica loadings, indicating an improved thermal stability.
24  ## Mechanical Properties  Table 2 summarizes the Young's moduli, tensile strengths, elongation at break values, and toughness of all of the PU–Si nanocomposites with silicon content ranging from 0 to 2 wt%; and their tensile stress–strain behaviors are shown in Figure 6. All of the samples behave as ductile polymers.
 Compared to the neat polymer PU–Si0, the Young's modulus is increased to 116.0 MPa from 32.3 MPa when the silicon content increases from 0 to 2 wt%. At the same time, the tensile strength is increased to 20.0 MPa from 15.1 MPa.
25 On the other hand, the elongation at break values decrease from 379 to 91% with the increase in the crosslink density, as expected.
  Besides the Young's modulus and the tensile strength, the toughness, which is a measurement of the material's resistance to fracture when stressed, is also calculated from Figure 6 by integrating the area below the stress–strain curve.
 As seen in Table 2, the toughness decreases from 31.1 to 11.2 MPa in going from 0% to 2 wt% silicon.
