Synthesis and properties of poly(methyl methacrylate)/montmorillonite (PMMA/MMT) nanocompositesPMMA/MMT nanocomposites were successfully synthesized via in situ intercalative polymerization, and characterized by means of wide-angle X-ray diffractometry, transmission electron microscopy, thermal gravimetric analysis, dynamic mechanical analysis and Fourier-transform infrared analysis. The nanocomposites possess partially exfoliated and partially intercalated structure, in which the silicate layers are exfoliated into nanometre secondary particles with thickness of less than 20 nm and uniformly dispersed in the polymer matrix. In comparison with pure PMMA, the thermal stability, glass transition temperature, and mechanical properties of the polymer are notably improved by the presence of the nanometric silicate layers. It was found that part of the PMMA chains in the nanocomposites are well immobilized inside and/or onto the layered silicates and, therefore, the unique properties of the nanocomposites result from the strong interactions between the nanometric silicate layers and the polymer chains. Keywords: nanocomposite; poly(methyl methacrylate); property ['The recent interest in polymer/clay (structurally layered silicate) composites with nanometer dimensions, the so-called nanocomposites,1–4 stems from the dramatic improvement in physical properties that can be produced by just adding a small fraction of clay to a polymer matrix.
 Since the layered silicate clay provides a special nanometric space, it can be regarded as a special nanoreactor, different from conventional reactors.
5 In these nanocomposites the movement of the polymer chains is confined, and then the interactions among the polymer chains are greatly affected by the confinement of the nanometer space.
 Therefore, as advanced structural materials, these polymer/layered silicate nanocomposites can exhibit improvedmechanical properties, decreased thermal expansion coefficient, reduced gas permeability, increased solvent resistance and enhanced ionic conductivity when compared with the polymers alone.
 From the point of view of structure, two idealized polymer/layered silicate structures are possible: intercalated and exfoliated ones.
6 In exfoliated nanocomposites, the silicate layers of montmorillonite (MMT) are completely exfoliated into individual nanometerthick (about 1 nm) layers and uniformly dispersed in the continuous polymer matrix.
 In contrast, in the intercalated nanocomposites, a single (and sometimes more than one) extended polymer chain is intercalated between the silicate layers, resulting in a well-ordered multiplayer morphology built up with alternating polymeric and silicate layers.
 In reality, instead of ideal exfoliated or intercalated nanocomposites, it is more common to obtain, partially exfoliated and partially intercalated nanocomposites, in which silicate layers of MMT are exfoliated into nanometer secondary particles (several silicate layers stacked against each other) and uniformly dispersed in the polymer matrix.
 Moreover, these systems may still exhibit substantial improvement of their physical properties.
 Poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) is an important member in the family of poly(acrylic ester)s.
 PMMA has some desirable properties, including exceptional optical clarity, high strength and excellent dimensional stability.
 However, its biggest disadvantage is its poor heat resistance.
 PMMA/MMT nanocomposites offer the potential for excellent thermal properties and improved physical performance.
 Early reports7–11 on PMMA/MMT nanocomposites focused on the study of the different preparation methods rather than the structure and properties of the final hybrid.
 Okamoto and co-workers7 and Huang and Brittain8 studied the effects of different organoclays on the structure of PMMA/MMT nanocomposites.
 Tabtiang and co-workers9 compared in situ intercalative polymerization with melt intercalation.
 Okamoto and coworkers10,11 studied the dispersed structure change of PMMA/MMT nanocomposites by copolymerization with three kinds of polar comonomers.
 Huang and Brittain8 reported the comparison of two different polymerization methods, suspension polymerization and emulsion polymerization.
 In this paper, we report the synthesis and characterization of partially exfoliated PMMA/MMT nanocomposites via in situ intercalative solution polymerization.
 Although there have been some reports on the formation of exfoliated PMMA/MMT nanocomposites by intercalative solution polymerization, our work mainly focuses on the study of the structure and property of PMMA/MMT nanocomposites containing different clay contents, and proposes some different views on the changing trend of their glass transition temperature Tg.
'].
['##Nanostructure of PMMA/MMT composites A nanocomposite is defined as a composite with the particle size of the disperse phase lower than 102 nm at least in one dimension.
12 When treated with an organic ammonium salt, the original inorganic MMT become lipophilics and the interlayer galleries are also enlarged.
 Figure 1 shows a series of WAXD patterns of PMMA/MMT composites containing different organo-MMT contents together with the pure organo- MMT used in this research.
 The interlayer spacing [basal spacing of the (001) plane, d001] of the organo- MMT obtained by CTAC treatment is 1.92 nm and larger than that of Na-MMT (0.96 nm), indicating that the intercalant certainly intercalates into the silicate layers of MMT.
 With the decrease of the organo-MMT content (from 10 wt% to 1 wt%) the peak intensity of the (001) plane in turn becomes lower.
 For PMMA/MMT composites containing 10 wt% and 5 wt% organo-MMT, the strong (001) plane peak corresponding to d001 (3.5 nm) is clearly observed, resulting from two possible kinds of composites: intercalated nanocomposites and partially exfoliated and partially intercalated nanocomposites.
 For PMMA/MMT composites containing 1 wt% organo-MMT, the absence of diffraction peaks also indicates two possibilities.
 The other is that partially exfoliated and partially intercalated nanocomposites were prepared, but due to the quite low real MMT content (only 0.45 wt%, see Table 1 below), the diffraction peak of (001) plane was not detectable.
 Moreover, from Fig 1 we can see that the typical peak intensity of MMT in the PMMA/MMT composites is stronger and sharper than that of organo-MMT, indicating that the ordering in the MMT layers was enhanced in the composites.
 Figure 2 shows the Figure 1. WAXD patterns of organo-MMT and PMMA/MMT composites.
 Figure 2a reveals that individual layers stacked against one another and dispersed in the PMMA matrix.
 Figure 2b, obtained at higher magnification, shows that MMT was exfoliated into secondary particles with a thickness lower than 20nm in large aspect ratio.
 With the increase of the organo- MMT content, as shown in Figs 2c and d where the PMMA/MMT composite contained 5 wt% organo- MMT, it was found that MMT layers were also uniformly dispersed in the PMMA matrix, and had good flexibility resulting from its large aspect ratio.
 Figure 2d appears to contain oriented collections of 3 ∼ 4 parallel silicate layers with an interlayer spacing of about 3.3 nm, which is consistent with the WAXD analysis.
 From Fig 2, it can also be seen that the silicate layers of MMT have flexural shapes.
13 Chen and Qi3 reported that exfoliated polystyrene/ montmorillonite (PS/MMT) nanocomposites obtained via intercalative polymerization showed the ordered structure induced by shear flow: while the unprocessed PS/MMT samples showed no X-ray diffraction peak, the injection-mould samples revealed strong and sharp peaks of the (001) plane in the low 2θ region; the diffraction peaks of MMT other planes also appeared.
 Figure 3 shows the WAXD patterns of PMMA/MMT composite samples containing 5 wt% of organo-MMT before and after injection-moulding.
 ##Thermal stability of PMMA/MMT nanocomposites The thermal properties of organo-MMT, pure PMMA and PMMA/MMT nanocomposites (5 wt% organo- MMT) characterized by TGA are shown in Fig 4 and Table 1. It can be seen that the thermal stability of the PMMA/MMT nanocomposites noticeably improved by adding montmorillonite into the PMMA matrix.
14 In Table 1, the sample with 100 wt% organo-MMT is in reality the pure organo-MMT.
 It began to lose weight at nearly 240 °C and the intercalant CTAC decomposed and/or vapourized from MMT.
 At about 420 °C, the weight loss rate eventually slowed and the residue was 78.4 wt% at that point.
 With the continuous increase of temperature, the weight loss rate increased again, which resulted from the fact that at high temperature, the structure of MMT is destroyed and structural H2O molecular within the layers of MMT leaves MMT.
15 As listed in Table 1, the Tend of PMMA/MMT nanocomposites was close to that of the organo-MMT, showing that the nanocomposites have reached the limit of thermal resistance of the inorganic montmorillonite.
 Table 1 also lists the residue of PMMA/MMT nanocomposites at Tend obtained by TGA, which is in accord with the content of pure (inorganic) MMT.
 It can be seen that the residue, and the content of organo-MMT used in the synthesis of PMMA/MMT nanocomposites have a nearly linear relationship as shown in Fig 5. The larger deviation appears at low organo-MMT content.
 The temperature dependence of tan δ and the storage modulus (E′) are shown in Figs 6 and 7, respectively.
 Figure 8 shows the dependency of Tg of PMMA/MMT nanocomposites on the organo-MMT content.
 It can be seen that Tg increases rapidly when the organo-MMT content is lower than 5 wt%, and that the increase is not significantly thereafter.
 This behaviour can be ascribed to the restricted segmental motions at the organic–inorganic interface: because of the large aspect ratio of the nanometric silicate layers, the polymer chains are well confined in the interlayer galleries at the nanoscale level. In order to understand the reasons for the changing trend of the storage modulus and Tg, the PMMA/MMT nanocomposite containing 10 wt% organo-MMT was extracted with tetrahydrofuran (THF) using a Soxhlet apparatus.
 Table 2 lists the organic content in the THF-extracted residue of the PMMA/MMT nanocomposite containing 10 wt% organo-MMT.
 It can be seen that after 48 h of extraction with THF, the organic content remains constant and is 40 wt% at this point.
 After comparison with Table 1, one can certainly conclude that there is a large quantity of PMMA in the residue.
 The FTIR spectra (Fig 9) reveals the absorption bands typical of PMMA chains at 1030, 1146 and 1730cm−1 in the residue after 48 h of THF-extraction of the nanocomposite.
9,16 Therefore, the Tg increase cannot be caused by the influence of the molecular weight.
 Lee16 assumed that ion–dipole interactions might be the driving force for the immobilization of the organic polymer chains lying flat on the layered silicate surface.
