Nanocomposite dielectrics—properties and implicationsThe incorporation of nanoparticles into thermosetting resins is seen to impart desirable dielectric properties when compared with conventional (micron-sized particulates) composites. Although the improvements are accompanied by the mitigation of internal charge in the materials, the nature of the interfacial region is shown to be pivotal in determining the dielectric behaviour. In particular, it is shown that the conditions and enhanced area of the interface changes the bonding that may give rise to an interaction zone, which affects the interfacial polarization through the formation of local conductivity. ['The burgeoning application of nanotechnology in the semiconductor and biological fields was not mirrored in the field of electrical insulation until quite recently, despite a forward looking paper by Lewis [1] a decade ago.
 However, recent activity in the formulation of nanodielectrics using, in particular, both thermosetting resins and polyolefins has shown some significant promise both in terms of the mechanical [2] properties and when used as electrical insulants [3]. Clays and inorganic oxides of nanometric dimensions are the most common particulates used to provide the filler material, but there is also, for good reason, interest in functionalizing the particle surface to bring about preferred coupling.
 It has been shown [4] that one of the features of such nanodielectrics is the striking change brought about to the magnitude and distribution of internal charge associated with the electrical stressing of these materials.
 This has been determined through a pulsed electroacoustic study of nanomaterials in comparison with the same resin with the incorporation of the same loading of micrometresized particles.
 The expected Maxwell–Wagner interfacial polarization associated with such composite materials is significantly altered when the particulate dimensions are reduced to about that of the polymer chain length (and the concomitant interfacial areas increase dramatically). The role played by internal charge can be confirmed through the modification of a space–charge peak (the so-called ρ-peak) in thermally stimulated current measurements, and by changes in dielectric spectroscopy, particularly at elevated temperatures [4, 5]. What is, perhaps, not so clear is the mechanism by which these changes take place.
 However, it is not only the magnitude and distribution of the internal charge that changes, but there is also a marked difference in the dynamics involved, particularly with the charge decay process.
 As an example, table 1 documents the decay time constants associated with a TiO2– epoxy composite system in both micro and nano forms.
 The top line provides the decay time constant of charge taken from a pulsed electroacoustic measurement [4], while the second line represents a similar time constant extracted from an electroluminescence experiment [5] undertaken on the same materials.
 While the specimen geometry of these two experiments is different and so comparison cannot be made in a vertical direction in table 1, nevertheless, the differences between the nanocomposite and microcomposite in either experiment are dramatic.
 Comparison of the values in table 1 in the horizontal direction indicates that both the decay of luminescence and of charge is significantly affected by the size of the filler particles, and suggests that internal fields are mitigated for nanoparticle formulations.
 '].
