In situ polymerization and characterization of polyamide-6/silica nanocomposites derived from water glass Polyamide-6/silica nanocomposites were prepared via an in situ polymerization route using silicic acid as the precursor of silica, which was extracted from water glass. Scanning electron microscopy observations showed that the silica particles were well dispersed in the polyamide-6 matrix on the nanometer scale, which demonstrated that this method could effectively avoid agglomeration of the inorganic particles. The coupling agent, (γ-aminopropyl) triethoxysilane, was added to introduce interfacial interactions between the silica and the polymer matrix, which led to an increased graft of polymer on the silica surface and made the material display higher performance. It was found that the incorporation of the inorganic component significantly increased the melt viscosity, tensile strength, Young's modulus, thermal decomposition temperature, glass transition temperature and Vicat softening temperature of the polyamide-6 resin. The reinforcement of the silica particles was clearly demonstrated. [' Recently, much interest in organic/inorganic composites has developed in the field of materials science.
 Inorganic materials, such as silica, exhibit excellent thermal stability and hardness.
 The incorporation of well-dispersed (preferably on the nanometer scale) silica particles into polymer matrices has been shown to be an extremely effective way to improve the thermal and mechanical properties of polymers.
1, 2  In general, the methods used for preparation of organic/inorganic composites include sol–gel processing, intercalation, blending and in situ polymerization.
3 The sol–gel method can be carried out under mild conditions and can achieve a good degree of dispersion.
 However, formation of a crosslinked network of organic metal oxides makes the sol–gel process difficult to carry out uniformly.
 In addition, owing to the volatilization of solvents, water, and other small molecules, shrinkage and rupture may occur during the desiccation of the gel, which greatly reduces the utility of the method.
4-6  Concerning nanocomposites of polyamides, a larger number of reports7-16 have focused on the intercalation and blending methods used to prepare polyamide/clay nanocomposites, in which the original studies were carried out by researchers at Toyota.
 By using the inherent characteristics of the alumino-silicate layes, such as swelling behavior and cation exchange, the inorganic phase could be evenly dispersed on a nanometer scale, hence generating strong interactions between the inorganic and organic phases.
 This approach, however, is only suitable for clay minerals.
  In situ polymerization, where inorganic particles are dispersed in an appropriate monomer, followed by heat treatment of the reaction mixture to induce polymerization, has been used to prepare composites.
 Employing this method, inorganic particles may be evenly dispersed in the polymer matrix, creating composites with good processability as a result of their thermal and mechanical properties.
 As for polyamide-6/silica in situ polymerization, previous studies17-19 have only concerned nanometer-scale silica powders as the inorganic fillers.
 However, such silica powders are costly, and it is difficult to disperse the silica particles in polymer matrices so that there is little aggregation.
  With the purpose of achieving a better distribution of inorganic particles in a polymer matrix and further improving the thermal and mechanical properties of the composites, coupling agents based on organic functional silanes (such as (aminophenyl)trimethoxysilane (APTMS), γ-glycidyloxypropyltrimethoxysilane (GPTMS) and isocyanatopropyltrimethoxysilane (ICTMS))20-24 have been used.
 Polyamide-6 systems with several coupling agents have also been studied.
25, 26  In this current article, we present a feasible and convenient in situ polymerization route for the preparation of polyamide-6/silica composites using silicic acid as the precursor of silica, which was extracted from water glass, an abundant and more affordable silica precursor.
 (γ-Aminopropyl)triethoxysilane (APTES) was used to introduce some chemical bonds between the polyamide-6 matrix and silica surface in order to improve their compatibility, and the thermal and mechanical properties of the composites were further enhanced.
 '].
["## Scanning electron microscopy observations  In this study, the average particle size of the silica in the three composite samples was about 80 nm.
 From the electron micrograph shown in Fig 3a, we can see that although the silica particles had a good dispersion in the matrix, a slight tendency to aggregate was still observed for the larger silica particles.
 Moreover, when the APTES coupling agent was added the effect of the interphase and interfacial interactions can be seen (Fig 3b), with the silica particles being wrapped by polymer molecules on the fracture surfaces, hence indicating that this coupling agent could greatly improve the compatibility and introduce some chemical bonds between the polyamide-6 matrix and the silica particles.
 Therefore, the silica component in the various samples was isolated from the composites by thorough washing with formic acid and then characterized by FT-IR spectroscopy; the percentage grafting of the polymer onto the silica than be calculated according to Equation (1). The resulting values are listed in Table 1, with Fig 4 showing the FT-IR spectra of the isolated silica material. Compared with the virgin silica, several new peaks appear in the spectra of the silica isolated from the composites: those at 1640 and 1550 cm−1 are of polyamides, while the peaks at 2950 and 2875 cm−1 represent the oscillations of the C\uf8ffH bond, and those near 3400 cm−1 correspond to N\uf8ffH bonds.
 These observations indicated that some polyamide-6 molecules had been chemically grafted onto the silica surface through chemical bonding, rather than by physical absorption.
  With regard to unmodified silica, the hydroxyl groups on the surface may react with the terminal carboxyl groups of the polyamide-6, as well as through alcoholysis of the amide groups.
 Upon addition of APTES, the introduced amino groups were capable not only of reacting with the terminal carboxyl groups of polyamide-6 but also of causing aminolysis of the polymer amide groups.
 From the data presented in Table 1 and the FT-IR spectra shown in Fig 4 we can conclude that in sample PA-5-k many more polyamide-6 macromolecules had been chemically grafted onto the silica surface through chemical bonding than in samples PA-5 and PA-10. ##Thermal properties  Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) was used to study the thermal properties of the polyamide-6/silica composite samples and the resulting data presented in Table 2. It is generally believed that the introduction of inorganic components into organic materials can improve their thermal stability, on the basis of the fact that these species themselves had good thermal stability.
 From the TGA curves shown in Fig 5, we found that the thermal decomposition temperature Td of the composites was raised with increasing amounts of added silica.
 The weight residue remaining at 700 °C was regarded as the real silica content.
 Compared with the control polyamide-6, which had a Td of 440.0 °C, the PA-5 and PA-10 samples had higher Tds, with values of 451.2 and 465.6 °C, respectively.
 Furthermore, in addition to the effect of the presence of silica particles, some chemical bonds existed between the organic and inorganic components in the PA-5-K sample, further increasing its Td to 453.7 °C (taking into account an accuracy of <1 °C in TGA measurements). The initial weight-loss temperatures of the composites were also markably raised.
 ## Crystallization behavior  Table 3 presents data for the melting point (Tm), melting enthalpy (ΔHm), crystallization temperature during melt cooling (Tmc), crystallization enthalpy (ΔHmc) and degree of supercooling (Tm–Tmc), obtained from DSC analyses of the various samples.
28 As Table 3 shows, with addition of silica there was a tendency of the crystallizability of polyamide-6 to decrease, while in contact the coupling agent APTES could slightly enhance the crystallizability.
 ##Rheological properties As can be seem from Fig 6, the addition of silica, derived from the water glass, resulted in a remarkable increase in the dynamic viscosity at both 215 and 245 °C in all of the composite systems, when compared with that of neat polyamide-6, whether APTES was used or not.
 The zero-shear viscosities of the samples can be calculated through the ‘Ellis model’ fitting method,29 with the values obtained being listed in Table 4, which also testified to the silica reinforcement.
30 The changes displayed in Fig 7 indicate that the storage modulus increased with increasing frequency and that the storage moduli of those composites containing silica and coupling agent all had higher values than that of the neat polyamide-6. On a molecular basis, the magnitude of G′ depends on what contour rearrangements can take place within the period of the oscillatory deformation.
 As the frequency increased, the molecular action time became short, and the movement responses of small-dimension units in polyamide-6 were dominant.
 For the composites containing silica and APTES-treated silica, segmental relaxation is most likely to be reduced by bonding to the rigid silica particles, thus leading to a higher G′ value than that of the neat polyamide-6. In a relaxation spectrum, H(τ) presents the modulus of each relaxation unit with a relaxation time of τ. As the tendency of the curves presented in Fig 8 shows, the relaxation times of the composite samples were much longer than the neat polyamide with the same modulus.
 It is obvious that the macromolecular composite species moved more slowly than the neat polyamide-6. ## Dynamic mechanical thermal behavior  In general, dynamic mechanical thermal analysis of polyamide-6 shows an α-peak in the tanδ curve which originates from the movement of the longer molecular chains in the amorphous region, corresponding the glass transition temperature.
 Figure 9 Shows the DMTA data obtained for the resulting composites prepared through in situ polymerization.
 The Tg of the polyamide-6/silica nanocomposites shifts to a high temperature whether the coupling agent was added or not, while the shift of the PA-5-k sample is more signification than that of the composites without APTES, hence indicating that the interfacial interactions between silica and polyamide-6 can be improved by modifying the silica surface with APTES at the same silica content.
 It can also be seen that the PA-5-k composite displays a reduced area for the dynamic loss peak when compared to both the unmodified composites and the neat polyamide-6 which means that good adhesion between the modified silica particles and the polyamide-6 matrix can limit the motion of the polyamide-6 molecular chain.
 Figure 9a shows that the storage modulus E′ of the samples decreases with increasing temperature and that the values for the composite samples were much higher than the neat polymer, under the same G′ conditions in rheological analysis.
31 This was the case when the silica was introduced.
 The values of elongation at break, tensile strength and 1 % Young's modulus of these samples are listed in Table 5, where the 1 % Young's modulus is the tangent modulus' at 1 % elongation and is close to the real value of the Young's modulus because of the very small elongation.
 In comparison with the neat polyamide-6, the PA-5 and PA-10 samples had a higher tensile strength and Young's modulus, but a lower elongation at break.
 From an inspection of Table 5, one can also observe that the PA-5-k sample had a much higher tensile strength and Young's modulus when compared to sample PA-5. This is attributed to the bonding between the silica particles and the polymer matrix.
 The VST values of these samples are listed in Table 6, from where we can see that the introduction of small amounts of silica contributed to a marked elevation of the VST, with the PA-5-k sample having a higher VST than the PA-5 sample.
