STRUCTURE PROCESS PROPERTY RELATIONSHIP OF EXFOLIATED GRAPHITE NANOPLATELET / POLY(LACTIC ACID) COMPOSITE FILMSExfoliated graphite nanoplatelets (GNP)/polylactic acid (PLA) composite films were fabricated using a scalable, melt compounding and compression molding process and the effect of cooling rate on the mechanical, viscoelastic and electrical properties of the composite films was examined. With superior conductivity, GNP enhances PLA, making it a green alternative to current conductive films made of petroleum based polymers for static dissipation applications. The crystallinity and crystal structure was investigated using differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and wide angle X-ray diffraction (WAXD). Electrical conductivity and tensile properties were also determined as a function of crystallinity/cooling rate. Both the crystallinity and the electrical conductivity increased with decreased cooling rate. It is concluded that for the same material system and processing method the electrical conductivity can be tailored by tuning the processing conditions, such as the cooling rate, during compression molding. Keywords: Thermoplastic polymer nanocomposites, exfoliated graphite, poly(lactic acid), melt spinning ['Conductive films have many applications including electromagnetic shielding, photovoltaics, gas sensors, and more [1]. Recently, a substantial amount of work has been done with carbon nanotubes (CNT) or CNT buckypaper (BP) / thermosetting resin [2] composite films replacing more traditional metallic fillers due to metal’s high density, cost, and susceptibility to corrosion of metals [1]. Incorporation of CNT into polymer matrices is difficult due to the CNT’s strong van der Waals interactions and high surface area [3] and the one dimensional structure limits the two dimensional in-plane conductivity of the composite films.
 However, BP is a dense network or mat of CNT [2, 4] and is extremely desirable in creating highly conductive films due to the abundance of nanotube pathways.
 BP is also a desirable alternative to CNT due to its ability to be handled like a more traditional carbon fiber mat [3]. However, the dense network of CNT that BP is comprised of makes it extremely difficult for polymers to penetrate and achieve good interfacial interactions.
 Natural graphite (NG), like CNT, offers superior conductivity since both materials share the same chemistry.
 NG is a planar structure composed of layers of fused benzene rings (hexagonally arranged covalently bonded carbon atoms) held together by relatively weak van der Waals interactions [5]. The planar structure of NG allows for superior conductivity in the plane of the benzene network [6]. In addition, due to this relatively weak interlayer force, NG can easily be intercalated and exfoliated to produce exfoliated graphite nanoplatelets (GNP) [5]. The further exfoliation of natural graphite enhances its potential use in polymer composites by creating a filler that can produce multiple conductive pathways allowing the GNP polymer composites to have a lower percolation threshold [1, 6]. Despite the success of thermosetting polymer matrices, thermoplastic matrices are extremely desirable due to their recyclability and melt processability.
 Poly(lactic acid) (PLA) is a biodegradable thermoplastic polyester that is produced from renewable resources such as sugarcane or cornstarch and has properties comparable to petroleum based polyolefins, making it an attractive alternative [7-9]. PLA has a wide variety of potential applications including food packaging, biomedical parts, electrical devices, and automotive components [5, 10]. There has been a number of studies on GNP / PLA composites focusing on a wide range of properties.
 The addition of well dispersed GNP in PLA has been reported to increase the Young’s modulus [9] and tensile strength [9] of the resultant composite compared to neat PLA.
 GNP, like NG, CNT or BP, is known for its superior conductivity, due to its chemical structure.
 Because of this conductivity, not only have GNP / PLA composites been of interest for electronics applications, but they have also been studied for their barrier properties, such as fire retardancy [5, 10]. The nanoplatelet structure acts as a physical barrier to radiant heat propagation [5, 10]. While the investigated properties and potential applications varies widely, the fabrication methods being studied for GNP / PLA composites generally fall into two main categories: solvent casting and melt processing.
 Solvent casting can be beneficial for filler dispersion because the polymer viscosity is reduced in solution.
 However, in many cases, solvent casting requires the use of toxic, harmful solvents that can be dangerous for humans, as well as detrimental to the environment.
 Melt processing is a useful fabrication technique for thermoplastic polymer composites because it is a scalable form of manufacturing that requires no harsh chemicals.
 However, the viscosity of many polymers is too high to homogeneously disperse the filler.
 This work focuses on scalable manufacturing of conductive GNP / PLA films via melt processing.
 The composite processing conditions will be correlated to the structure and properties of the overall composite film.
 Contrary to much of the previous studies performed with GNP / PLA composites, in this work melt spinning GNP / PLA fibers prior to compression molding is used to further control the GNP structure and dispersion.
 The high shear force applied during processing facilitates alignment of the two dimensional GNP platelets along the fiber axis.
 Also, the diameter of the produced fibers (20 – 30 μm) limits the agglomerate size of the GNP within the matrix.
 PLA films of ~230 μm thickness were produced with up to 15wt% of GNP.
 GNP was used in this study as opposed to graphite oxide (GO) or acid treated graphite (AG) because the addition of oxide groups and other impurities decreases the conductivity by introducing more available scattering sites.
 The ultimate goal of this work is to produce films of superior thermal and electrical conductivity for microelectronics applications.
 However, the focus of this study is to provide a comparison of the structure – process – properties trade-offs of the GNP / PLA composite films compared to the neat PLA films.
'].
['##3.1 Morphology The thicknesses of the neat and composite films were controlled by varying the applied load during compression molding.
 Various loads were applied during compression molding to determine the most desirable loading conditions to produce films ~230 μm thick with minimal thickness deviations throughout the film.
 3) The variation in thickness throughout each specimen was very sensitive to both the applied load and the topography of the platen surface.
 To reduce thickness variation and defects throughout the samples, precision ground 4140/4142 alloy steel plates were used as mold surfaces.
 Also, the applied load was increased to 12,000 lbs.
 4a and b) Some GNP clusters can be seen in Fig.
 4b indicated by the arrow and were observed to be ~3 – 10 μm wide.
 ##3.2 Thermo-mechanical Properties DMA was performed on the films to characterize the mechanical properties.
 The average of three representative tests for both the composite and neat film samples are reported with the corresponding standard deviations in Table 1. (Some of the standard deviations were not statistically significant when compared to the instrument resolution and therefore were not reported.
) The storage modulus decreases as temperature and molecular mobility of the polymer chains increases [3, 11]. Both the loss modulus and tan δ are at a maximum as the polymer goes through its glass transition region, while the storage modulus is rapidly decreasing [3, 11]. Eʹ of the neat PLA and 15wt% GNP / PLA at 35°C are ~3.235 GPa and ~4.180 GPa, respectively.
 (Table 1 & Fig.
 5a) This represents a 23% increase for the composite film compared to the neat polymer film.
 The stiffening or increase in elastic behavior of the polymer composite indicates hindered mobility of the polymer chains caused by the incorporation of GNP in the PLA matrix [11, 12]. The loss modulus (Eʺ) is representative of the viscous component of the thermo-mechanical response.
 5b) Often, the Eʺ peak or damping peak can be indicative of polymer crystallinity or amorphous chain mobility [5]. The difference in height of the Eʺ peak for the neat and composite films (seen in Fig.
 5b) can be attributed to the hindered mobility of the amorphous region in the composite films.
 The 15wt% GNP / PLA films have a much lower Eʺ peak compared to the neat PLA indicating a higher degree of crystallinity and/or hindered chain mobility.
) The maximum tan δ peak value (tan δmax) for the neat PLA films is significantly reduced by 93% upon addition of 15wt% GNP as shown in Fig.
 5c and Table 1, indicating lower polymer chain mobility and lower energy dissipation in the glass transition region due to the presence of GNP.
 This behavior is attributed to the confinement of the polymer chain segments by the high concentration of GNP in the PLA matrix [12]. The reported values for the DSC (an average of three tests) and the corresponding standard deviations are reported in Table 2. (As with Table 1, only statistically relevant standard deviations are reported.
 6) show a slight decrease in Tg with the GNP addition (~58°C and ~60°C, respectively). The formation of filler agglomerations has been reported to cause a decrease in composite Tg compared to neat polymer, particularly at higher filler concentrations [14, 15]. Weaker polymer-filler interactions and interfacial bonding leads to the formation of filler agglomerates [15], therefore decreasing Tg due to the higher polymer chain mobility compared to that of a composite with stronger polymer-filler interfacial bonding and more homogeneous dispersion [15]. After examining the composite samples via optical microscopy, small clusters (~3 – 10 μm wide) of GNP were observed in the films.
 4b) The slight decrease in Tg observed for the composite films using DSC compared to the neat polymer is in direct contrast to the results obtained using DMA.
 The results obtained via DMA show an increase in the Tg for the composite films (~65°C) compared to the neat PLA film (~63°C) indicating strong polymer-filler interfacial interaction and decreased polymer chain mobility [15]. Due to the standard error of the DSC and DMA results, the statistical significance of the change in Tg with filler concentration should be studied further.
) χ was calculated using the following equation [10, 16]: (1) ΔHm is the melting enthalpy of the sample, ΔH°m is the melting enthalpy of 100% crystalline PLA, 93 J/g [5, 10, 13], and wt% is the weight percent of the filler, in this case GNP.
 As seen in Table 2, χ for the 15wt% GNP / PLA films is significantly greater than the χ for the neat PLA films.
 5b & c). The neat PLA films have a crystallinity of approximately 3.7%, while the 15wt% GNP / PLA films have a crystallinity of approximately 39.6%. Nanofillers, such as GNP, have been shown to act as nucleation sites promoting crystallization [5, 10] and the increase in crystallinity could be due to the addition of GNP into the matrix.
 Crystallization behavior is strongly affected by processing [16] and further studies should be conducted to specifically examine the morphology of the crystalline regions and overall crystallization behavior for this system.
