Rubber–pristine clay nanocomposites prepared by co-coagulating rubber latex and clay aqueous suspensionThe structure of several rubber–clay nanocomposites, including styrene butadiene rubber (SBR)–clay, natural rubber (NR)–clay, nitrile butadiene rubber (NBR)–clay, carboxylated acrylonitrile butadiene rubber (CNBR)–clay nanocomposites, prepared by directly co-coagulating the rubber latex and clay aqueous suspension, were investigated. X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) micrographs showed that these nanocomposites possessed a unique structure, in which the rubber molecules “separated” the clay particles into either individual layers or just silicate layer aggregates of nanometer thickness without the intercalation of rubber molecules into clay galleries, different from intercalated and exfoliated clay nanocomposites. Such a structure resulted from the competition between separation of rubber latex particles and re-aggregation of single silicate layers during the co-coagulating process. The content of bound rubber of SBR–clay nanocompound is more than that of the corresponding rubber filled with micrometer clay or silica because of the increased networking of silicate layers with the nano-meter dispersion and the high aspect ratio. The glass transition temperature of SBR–clay nanocomposites increased as compared with that of the pure SBR. The tensile strength of SBR–clay nanocomposite loading 20phr clay was 6.0 times higher than that of the conventional SBR–clay composite. The gas permeability of separated rubber–clay nanocomposites containing 20phr decreased 50% as compared with the corresponding gum vulcanizates.['Polymer–clay nanocomposites are of great interest for both scientific challenges and industrial applications [bib1 bib2 bib3]. In the open literatures, the polymer–clay nanocomposites are generally classified into three groups according to their structures, i.
e.
, nanocomposites with intercalated, exfoliated, or both of intercalated and exfoliated structures.
 Among them, the completely exfoliated nanocomposites are desired due to the fact that the exfoliated layers exhibit the greatest reinforcement.
 Therefore, many efforts have been made to investigate this type of nanocomposites.
 However, most experimental work has been focused on thermoplastic resin matrixes, and there are only a few studies dealing with rubber–clay nanocomposites.
 In fact, reinforcement, especially reinforcement of nano-fillers, is very important for rubber applications, which can be confirmed by the developing history of the rubber industry.
 Carbon black (nanometer particles, spherical) was first taken as reinforcing filler in 1904 [bib4], and from then on carbon black reinforced rubber nanocomposites have been widely used in various rubber products such as tires, tubes, etc.
 It is the excellent nano-reinforcing effect of carbon black that greatly upgrades the mechanical properties of rubber, and makes many rubber applications possible.
 Thus, it can be expected that, exfoliated clay, as a novel class of nanofiller independent on oil resources, will play big roles in the rubber industry.
', 'Up to now, technologies for synthesis of rubber–clay nanocomposites mainly include rubber melt or solution intercalation of organoclay [bib5 bib6 bib7 bib8 bib9 bib10 bib11 bib12] and latex route using pristine clay [bib13]. Compared with the melt or solution method, the approach of co-coagulating rubber latex and clay aqueous suspension [bib13], where pristine clay (non-organoclay) is employed, is promising for industrialization due to the low cost of pristine clay, simplicity of preparation process and superior cost/performance ratio.
', 'In our previous work, morphology and mechanical properties of styrene butadiene rubber (SBR)–clay, carboxylated acrylonitrile butadiene (CNBR)–clay, nitrile rubber (NBR)–clay nanocomposites were investigated [bib14 bib15 bib16 bib17 bib18]. As for the structure, TEM observation clearly showed that clay dispersed in the rubber matrix at the nanometer level, and XRD diffraction peaks shifted to smaller angles compared with the pristine clay.
 Based on these results, it was assumed that these nanocomposites contained both exfoliated and intercalated structures.
 However, the basal spacing of rubber composites prepared by latex route is 1.37–1.57nm [bib14 bib15 bib17], which is much smaller than that of nanocomposites with intercalated structure (generally more than 3.3nm) [bib11 bib12], and even smaller than that of organoclay (more than 1.7nm) [bib11 bib12]. Therefore, the assumption that these nanocomposites contain both exfoliated and intercalated structures seems unreasonable due to the larger dimension of rubber molecules than that of organic ammonium salts.
 To further develop the technology of co-coagulation, this paper is focused on elucidating the structure characteristics and nanocompounding mechanism of the rubber–clay nanocomposites, and investigating the reinforcement effects, the network of silicate layers in nanocomposites, and the interface between the dispersed silicate layers and rubber matrix.
 The results are expected to provide a deep insight into the structure of nanocomposites prepared by the latex route and the relevant nanocompouding mechanism, and to benefit our understanding on relationship between microstructures and properties.
'].
 [fig1] shows TEM micrographs of four rubber–clay nanocomposites containing 20phr clay, NR–clay, SBR–clay, NBR–clay, and CNBR–clay.
 In [fig1], the dark lines are the intersections of the silicate layers.
 From [fig1](a)–(d), there are both individual layers and stacking silicate layers with the thickness of about 10–30nm.
', 'The XRD patterns of Na+–MMT and the above four nanocomposites are presented in [fig2]. The peaks correspond to the (001) plane reflections of the silicate layer aggregates.
 From [fig2], the peaks of the NR–clay and SBR–clay nanocomposites are both at 1.34nm, and the NBR–clay and CNBR–clay nanocomposites show the peak at 1.50 and 1.51nm, respectively.
 All of these intergallery distances are larger than the initial value of Na+–MMT (1.25nm), which seems to indicate that rubber molecules are intercalated into the clay interlayer.
 However, the basal spacing of the four nanocomposites (1.34–1.51nm) is smaller than that of organoclay in the literature (larger than 1.7nm) [bib11 bib12], and thus it is unreasonable to conclude that the intercalation of rubber macromolecules into the interlayer occurred.
 Moreover, in [fig2], the basal spacing 1.34nm of NR–clay and SBR–clay nanocomposites using triethylenetetrammonium chloride as the flocculant is close to 1.31nm of   RNH  3  + -  MMT   , and in the cases of NBR–clay and CNBR–clay nanocomposites using calcium chloride as the flocculant, it is 1.50 and 1.51nm, respectively, almost the same as 1.52nm of Ca2+–MMT.
 Here, the differences between 1.34 and 1.31nm, and 1.50 or 1.51 and 1.52nm may be due to the undulation of the experimental value.
']], ['Dispersion process of clay and nanocompounding mechanism of co-coagulation method', ['The SEM micrograph of Na+–MMT paticles is presented in [fig3], and the particles are in the size range of 2–20μm.
 The X-ray patterns of clay aqueous dispersions with various water contents (as indicated) are presented in [fig4].', 'From [fig4], the basal spacing of Na+–MMT at ambient humidities is 1.25nm.
 When the water concentration is 70%, there may be a diffraction peak at less than 1.5° of 2<i>θ</i> value.
 But when the water content is more than 90%, there is no diffraction peak.
 This result is consistent with that of Norrish [bib20]. It can be concluded that Na+–MMT can be dispersed into the individual layers in the dilute aqueous solution (the clay concentration is less than 10%).', 'Since SBR is a widely used rubber in the rubber industry, we trace the preparation process of SBR–clay nanocompound by XRD.
 [fig5] shows the XRD patterns at various stages of the preparation process.
 The first stage ([fig5](a)) is 3% clay aqueous suspension, and no XRD peak appears, which indicates the complete exfoliation of clay in water.
, when the SBR latex mixes with the clay aqueous suspension, is depicted in [fig5](b). [fig5](b) does not show any XRD peak either, which suggests the mixture is stable, and rubber latex particles do not cause the aggregation of silicate layers.
 The third stage ([fig5](c)) is after addition of flocculant.
 The basal spacing is 1.35nm, larger than 1.31nm of   RNH  3  + -  MMT(in [fig2]) due to the existence of water.
 The fourth stage ([fig5](d)) is the dried SBR–clay nanocompound.
 The basal spacing is 1.29nm, close to 1.31nm of   RNH  3  + -  MMT   . From these results, we can conclude that the flocculant coagulated the rubber latex and the silicate layers at the same time, and the rubber macromolecules did not intercalate into the galleries of clay.
 The schematic illustration of the mixing and co-coagulating process is presented in [fig6]. At the stage of mixing, the rubber latex particles were mixed with the clay aqueous suspension, in which clay was dispersed into individual silicate layers.
']], ['The properties of rubber–clay nanocomposites', ['The mechanical properties of three rubber–clay nanocomposites: SBR–clay, NR–clay and CNBR–clay, are listed in [tbl1]. Compared to the corresponding conventional rubber–clay composites containing the equivalent amount of clay (20phr), all of the three nanocomposites exhibit substantially higher 300% stress, shore A hardness, tensile strength and tear strength.
 Of particular notice is that the tensile strength of SBR–clay nanocomposite exhibited 6.0 times higher value than that of conventional SBR–clay composite.
 The largely increased reinforcement and the tear resistance of the nanocomposites should be ascribed to the dispersed structure of clay at the nano level, the high aspect ratio and the planar orientation of the silicate layers [bib14].', 'The gas permeabilities of SBR–clay, NR–clay, and NBR–clay nanocomposites with 20phr clay are presented in [tbl2]. Compared to the corresponding gum vulcanizates, the nitrogen permeability of SBR–clay, NR–clay, and NBR–clay nanocomposites reduced by 54.1%, 46.7% and 47.8%, respectively, and the decrease amplitude is about 50% for all of the three nanocomposites.
', 'The gas permeabilities of gum SBR vulcanizate, SBR–clay nanocomposites (SBR–clay NC), conventional SBR–clay composites (SBR–clay MC) and SBR filled with carbon black (SBR-N330) are presented in [fig7]. In [fig7], the nitrogen permeabilities reduce with the increase of the amount of filler, and SBR–clay nanocomposites have the best gas barrier property among the three classes of composites.
 Compared with the gum SBR vulcanizate, the nitrogen permeability of SBR–clay nanocomposites with 1.96, 7.40 and 13.8vol% clay reduces by 27.3%, 54.1%, and 61%, respectively.
 The strain sweep data of three different compounds with 20phr fillers are shown in [fig8]. A non-linear behavior is evidently observed in each of these filled compounds.
 The increased filler networking in the SBR–clay nanocompound could be attributed to the nanometer dispersion of silicate layers and the higher aspect ratio, compared with micrometer clay (2–20μm, in [fig3]) and carbon black particles (nanometer, but spherical shape).', 'Bound rubber is the macroscopic result of rubber-filler physico-chemical interactions, and it reflects the reinforcing capabilities of the filler.
 During the extraction process, the SBR filled with 10, 20, 30, 40phr micrometer clay by directly blending disintegrated and some filler particles diffused into the solvent, which implies that the interaction between SBR and micrometer clay aggregates should be very weak.
 There existed the similar phenomenon for SBR filled with 10, 20phr carbon black or silica.
 Experimental results of the amount of bound rubber in different compounds are shown in [tbl3]. The bound rubber content increases from 10.9 to 46.5wt% for SBR–clay nanocompounds when the clay content increases from 10 to 40phr.
 When the filler content is 30 phr, the bound rubber is 37.7wt% for SBR–clay nanocompound, 15.4wt% for SBR filled with carbon black, and 11.2wt% for SBR filled with silica, respectively.
 Though carbon black and silica are nano-powder and the interaction between carbon black or silica and rubber macromolecules is believed to be stronger than that of nano-clay and rubber macromolecules, the bound rubber content of SBR–clay nanocompound with 30phr is still the highest.
 This could be ascribed to the huge surface area of clay dispersed at nanometer level and the largest aspect ratio of silicate layers, which results in the increased silicate layer networking (in [fig8]).', 'The storage modulus of SBR filled with 20phr fillers versus temperature is shown in [fig9]. The modulus of SBR–clay nanocomposite (SBR–clay NC) is the highest and the temperature at which the modulus begins to decrease is also the highest, which further reflects the strong confinement of nano-dispersed silicate layers on the rubber molecules.
', 'Loss factor, tan<i>δ</i>, versus temperature is presented in [fig10]. The SBR–clay nanocomposite shows the highest glass transition temperature, the lowest tan<i>δ</i> value at the glass transition temperature and the broadest glass transition region.
 In the rubbery region (20–100°C), the amplitude of the loss factor of the SBR–clay nanocomposite become the highest, which suggests the strongest networking and the interfacial hysteresis originating from strong gradient confinement of rubber molecules by silicate layers.
