In‐situ‐Synthetized Silver/Epoxy Nanocomposites: Electrical Characterization by Means of Dielectric Spectroscopy In situ synthesis of silver/epoxy nanocomposites was achieved by UV‐induced polymerization through a simultaneous photoinduced electron transfer and cationic polymerization processes. The FESEM morphological investigation showed a uniform dispersion of silver nanoparticles within the polymeric matrix having narrow size distribution between 15 and 20 nm. The evolution of dielectric properties with frequency and NP content seem to indicate that the nanocomposites of this study remain below the percolation threshold. The dielectric spectroscopy results are in good agreement with the morphological investigation, which showed the absence of NPs percolative network. [' The fabrication of metallic nanoparticles (NPs) is a topic of extreme interest in material science because of the wide range of optical and electronic properties that are accessible in the nanometer size range.
1  The good dispersion of metallic NPs within a polymeric matrix is a tough goal of increasing importance since these hybrid materials could have high potentiality for applications in many fields such as catalysis,2 electron or energy storage3 and sensors.
4  In particular, silver NPs are very important for their excellent electrical conductivity,5 antimicrobial effect6 and optical properties.
7  The main challenge in this area is to overcome NPs agglomeration; because of their high surface area, metal NPs have a strong tendency to agglomerate.
  Many different approaches have been successfully reported in literature.
8-11  In particular, Sangermano et al.12, quite recently, proposed an elegant in situ synthesis of silver/epoxy nanocomposites, which was achieved by simultaneous photoinduced electron transfer and cationic polymerization processes.
 The results established a novel approach for the preparation of nanocomposites by which NP formation and cross‐linking processes can be accomplished in one‐pot by simply irradiating appropriate formulations and they demonstrated that the NPs are homogeneously distributed in the network without macroscopic agglomeration.
 In their approach, electron‐donor alkoxybenzyl radicals formed from the photoinduced cleavage of 2,2‐dimethoxy‐2‐phenylacetophenone, are oxidized to the corresponding carbocations capable of initiating cationic cross‐linking of a bis(epoxide), in the presence of silver hexafluoroantimonate, with concomitant formation of silver NPs.
  In this paper, we have prepared silver/epoxy nanostructured films by following the aforementioned approach.
 The obtained coatings were characterized by dielectric spectroscopy.
 When placed in an electric field, nanocomposites are subject to ionic, interfacial and dipole polarization.
 Those polarization mechanisms have considerably different time scales and length scales, making dielectric spectroscopy, with its unparalleled range of frequency and temperature, uniquely suited for the study of nanocomposites in general and of metallic NP‐based nanocomposites in particular.
 Nanocomposite dynamics (by analyzing the effect of nanofillers on the dynamics and relaxations of the polymeric chains)13-16 as well as electrical properties can be analyzed in a very wide range of frequency and/or temperature.
17-22 '].
12 A silver hexafluoroantimonate salt was added to CE resin together with a radical photoinitiator, and the formulations were UV‐irradiated.
  Epoxy group conversion as a function of irradiation time for the investigated formulations is reported in Figure 1. While the slope of the curves gives an indication of the rate of polymerization, the plateau value gives the final epoxy group conversion.
  From the curves reported in Figure 1, it is evident that silver hexafluoroantimonate is quite efficient at converting UV‐generated free radicals into propagating carbocations, which start cationic epoxy ring‐opening polymerization with high reactivity.
  The polymerization rate is very similar for all the investigated formulation, with just a slight increase of epoxy group conversion in the presence of 20 wt.
 This result could be due to the fact that the silver salt is introduced in the photocurable formulation using propylene carbonate solution (1:1 wt.
‐% ratio). By increasing the actual content of the silver precursor up to 20 wt.
  All the cured films showed a high gel content above 98% (see Table 1), indicating the absence of monomer or extractable oligomers.
  The cured films were characterized in terms of their dynamic‐mechanical properties; the tan δ curves registered by DMTA analysis are reported in Figure 2: all the curves show a maximum which is assumed as the Tg value of the cured films.
23  All cured coatings show a single tan δ peak, evidencing the formation of a homogeneous glassy polymer network, with a decrease of Tg values (with a shift of the maximum of tan δ peak toward lower temperature) by increasing the silver precursor content.
 This result, at first sights, seems to be in contrast with the FT‐IR data that showed a slight increase of epoxy group conversion in the presence of 20 wt.
 Nevertheless, the observed decrease in Tg value of the cured films by increasing the silver precursor content could be due to a plasticization effect induced by the presence of the propylene carbonate which remains trapped into the glassy polymer network (the boiling point of propylene carbonate is 240 °C).  All the cured films were transparent which could probably indicate the absence of any macroscopic silver particle agglomeration.
 In Figure 3 the UV‐Vis spectrum of the cured films show the presence of a strong absorption peak centered at around 450 nm, which is close to the reported surface Plasmon resonance for silver NPs in solution.
24 The size and shape of metal nanoparticles determine the spectral position of plasmon band absorption.
 It is evident from the spectra reported in Figure 3 a slight shift of the maximum peak of the Plasmon resonance toward longer wavelength by increasing the amount of silver precursor.
  In Figure 4 it is reported the FESEM pictures of the surface fracture of the cured epoxy film obtained in the presence of 20 wt.
 It is evident a uniform dispersion of silver NPs within the polymeric matrix having narrow size distribution between 15 and 20 nm.
  The complex dielectric permittivity (ε* = ε′ + iε″) and AC conductivity (σAC) values have been measured for all the nanocomposites by frequency sweeps (from 1 Hz to 10 MHz) at different temperatures, in order to analyze the effect of silver NPs and their amount on the electrical properties of the nanocomposites.
 Table 2 shows the approximate silver NP amount for each nanocomposite, depending on the precursor content, calculated by extracting the experimental char amount of the neat epoxy sample from the experimental char amount of each nanocomposite.
  Figure 5 shows, the evolution of the dielectric constant (ε′), dielectric loss (expressed as tan δ, the ratio between ε′ and ε″) and AC conductivity (σAC) with frequency as measured at room temperature, for all the nanocomposites studied.
25 Moreover, except for the lower frequencies (where interfacial charge piling due to the generation of NP/polymer interfaces increases the dielectric constant with NP content), dielectric constant values and behavior with frequency is very similar in the neat matrix and the nanocomposites, being almost nearly frequency independent.
 Several authors have pointed out that this fact corresponds to nanocomposites based on conductive nanofillers below the percolation threshold,26-28 while for nanocomposites above the percolation threshold there is a big frequency dependence of the dielectric constant.
29-34 The evolution of the parameters seems to indicate that the percolation threshold has not been reached, even for the nanocomposite with 20 wt.
‐% of precursor (approximately 5 wt.
‐% of NPs). Gonon and Boudefel20 calculated a theoretical threshold of 15 wt.
‐% (which would agree with our results), but found an experimental one of around 1 wt.
 This is in agreement with the morphological analysis which shows that, even in the presence of 20 wt.
  Figure 6 shows the evolution of dielectric constant, tan δ and AC conductivity values with NP content at room temperature and several frequencies ranging from 1 kHz to 1 MHz.
35-39 '].
