PMMA-grafted-silica/PVC nanocomposites: Mechanical performance and barrier properties Poly(vinyl chloride) (PVC)/SiO2 nanocomposites were prepared via melt mixture using a twin-screw mixing method. To improve the dispersion degree of the nanoparticles and endow the compatibility between polymeric matrix and nanosilica, SiO2 surface was grafted with polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA). The interfacial adhesion was enhanced with filling the resulting PMMA-grafted-SiO2 hybrid nanoparticles characterized by scanning electron microscopy. Both storage modulus and glass transition temperature of prepared nanocomposites measured by dynamic mechanical thermal analysis were increased compared with untreated nanosilica-treated PVC composite. A much more efficient transfer of stresses was permitted from the polymer matrix to the hybrid silica nanoparticles. The filling of the hybrid nanoparticles caused the improved mechanical properties (tensile strength, notched impact strength, and rigidity) when the filler content was not more than 3 wt %. Permeability rates of O2 and H2O through films of PMMA-grafted-SiO2/PVC were also measured. Lower rates were observed when compared with that of neat PVC. This was attributed to the more tortuous path which must be covered by the gas molecules, since SiO2 nanoparticles are considered impenetrable by gas molecules. [' Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) materials are extensively used in many applications, such as pipes, electric cables, sectional bars, and packaging material, etc.
 Though PVC finds extensive use in packaging, improvements in its poor barrier properties will be beneficial for the current applications and should also lead to applications in pharmaceuticals, electronic packaging, and particularly packaging of food products, which are sensitive to oxygen and moisture.
1, 2 To develop the usage for pharmaceutical products, PVC should have comprehensive properties such as excellent strength, heat resistance, modulus, and gas permeability barrier properties, which is the most important in terms of protection of the active principle.
3  Rubber is widely used to toughen PVC composites.
 However, it often leads to a reduction in strength, heat resistance, modulus, and difficult processing of the polymeric composites.
4-6 While polymeric nanocomposites have been recently established as a more exciting new class of materials that are nanoparticle-filled, which usually exhibit superior mechanical performance and improved barrier properties at very low loading levels.
7 Improvements on mechanical properties, such as stiffness and toughness, strength, barrier, and heat resistance with respect to the matrix polymer are usually observed.
 These are usually attributed to the dramatic increase of the interfacial area between nanoscale filler and polymeric matrix.
8-10  Polymers filled with nanosized particles often show filler agglomeration and network formation in the polymer matrix.
 Agglomeration may make performance worse than that of the matrix polymer.
 To solve nanoparticle agglomeration and improve the filler particle dispersion in the matrix, a great deal of research has been done to modify the interface between the filler and polymeric matrix.
 For example, modification of nanoparticles with coupling agents is a simple approach to improve the filler dispersion in the polymeric matrix.
11 To improve the adhesion between the matrix and inorganic particles, polymer were employed to modified surface of inorganic particles.
 Wu et al.12 blended PVC with nano-CaCO3 particles coated with chlorinated polyethylene (CPE) elastomer and found that the composites had the higher tensile and impact strength than those blended with the untreated particles.
  To bring the effect of the nanoparticles into play, treatment of nanoparticles through graft polymerization was well-developed.
9, 13-16 Taking advantage of this, the following benefits can be gained: (i) the hydrophilic particles surfaces are converted into hydrophobic in favor of improving miscibility between the components; (ii) the loosened nanoparticles agglomerates are turned into compact nanocomposite structure consisting of the particles and the grafting polymers; and (iii) the interfacial interaction between the filler particles and the surrounding matrix is enhanced through entanglement of the grafting polymers attached to the nanoparticles with the matrix molecules.
 Therefore, stress can be transferred to all the nanoparticles when the composites are subjected to applied force, while stiffening, reinforcing, and toughening effects are observed at very low nanoparticle content filled.
  In addition to various fibers and spherical mineral particles such as montmorillonite,17 calcium carbonate,18-20 and aluminum oxide,21 silica has played an important role in reinforcement components due to the nanoscale effects.
22 Polymer-silica nanocomposites often exhibit dramatic improvements in mechanical properties such as strength, modulus, and heat resistance.
23-25 Moreover, the gas permeability barrier properties of polymer-silica nanocomposites were significantly affected by the filling content.
26-33 The penetrant diffusion coefficient can be quantitatively described by the Cohen-Turnbull model.34 The nanospace in the polymer-silica nanocomposite is varied with the addition of silica nanoparticles via the alteration of the polymer chain packing,27 which affects the gas permeability barrier properties of polymeric nanocomposites.
 Because PMMA has been proved to have excellent compatibility with PVC,35 in this study, to improve embedding of the nanofillers within PVC matrix, PMMA was selected and firstly grafted onto nanosilica surface, the resulting hybrid nanoparticles were then used in making PVC nanocomposites.
 The effects of filling content on the performance of PVC nanocomposites were investigated.
 Our results exhibit that PVC nanocomposites have superior mechanical performance, enhanced interfacial adhesion, and improved barrier properties at very low loading levels.
 This investigation will lead to applications of PVC in pharmaceutical, electronic packaging, and particularly of food products.
 '].
['##PMMA graft copolymerization on SiO2 surface  Figure 1 shows FTIR spectra of the untreated silica, neat PMMA, and PMMA-grafted-SiO2 after extraction with acetone for 24 h.
 Compared to the spectrum of PMMA, there is a very pronounced band appearing at 1103 cm−1, together with two less pronounced bands at 805 and 467 cm−1, corresponding to the vibration absorption of Si\uf8ffO\uf8ffSi groups in the spectrum of untreated silica and PMMA-grafted-SiO2. In comparison with the spectrum of the untreated SiO2, the adsorption peaks are at 2952, 1732, 1439 cm−1, which are assigned to CH, C\uf8feO, and CH3 stretching vibration of PMMA, respectively.
 The content of PMMA bonded on the SiO2 particles is 73.3 wt %, measured by TGA.
 PMMA-grafted-SiO2 nanoparticles show a morphology of regular spherical with the diameter ranging from 80 to 90 nm revealed by TEM characterization, which has been reported by our group.
36 ## Morphology  Figure 2 shows the SEM fractographs of the PVC composites.
 2(a)] when compared with that of PMMA-grafted-SiO2/PVC composites [Fig.
 2(b–d)]. Among the treated nanosilica/PVC composites, the interface of composite filled with 3 wt % of PMMA-grafted-SiO2 exhibits most adhesive.
 2(d)]. The improved interfacial adhesion should be caused by two important factors.
35 It is well-known that the more dispersed the nanosilica is, the better the interface between silica and PVC matrix it achieves.
11 Moreover, the hydrophobic polymer does not wet or interact with the hydrophilic fillers because of their differences in surface energy.
16 Therefore, it is the aggregation of untreated nanosilicas and poor compatibility between silica fillers and PVC matrix that results in weak interface of untreated nanosilica/PVC composite [Fig.
 2(a)]. In the case of PMMA-grafted-SiO2/PVC composites, the dispersion of nanosilica was improved substantially due to the steric hindrance effect caused by the polymer long chains.
 The bare nanosilicas have the bigger surface energy than PMMA-grafted-SiO2 nanosilicas, when nanosilicas are filled into PVC matrix, they aggregate severely in PVC matrix for their big surface energy and disperse poorly in PVC matrix, then the value of contact area between nanosilicas and PVC matrix decreases rapidly, which leads to the decreasing of the effective interfacial interaction between the inorganic particle and PVC matrix of the unit volume nanosilicas.
  Figure 3 shows the storage module (E′) as a function of temperature for PVC composites filling with different content of nanoparticles.
 It is apparent from the results in Figure 3, that all the storage module of the PVC nanocomposites has the higher storage module than neat PVC below the glass transition temperature (Tg). It is known that the relative values of storage module of particulate-filled polymer composites are influenced by the effective interfacial interaction between the inorganic particles and PVC chains.
37 Therefore, from the improvement of PMMA-grafted-SiO2/PVC composites in storage module in comparison with that of untreated SiO2-filled PVC at the same filling content, it can be concluded that there is better interface when the nanosilica was grafted with PMMA.
 Figure 4 shows loss tangent delta (tan δ) dependence on temperature of PVC and its composites.
 From this figure, it is obvious to find the Tg of PMMA-grafted-SiO2/PVC nanocomposites shifts to a higher temperature as compared with that of neat PVC and untreated-SiO2 filled PVC.
 ## Mechanical properties of nano-SiO2/PVC composites  Figure 5 presents the notched impact strength of neat PVC and its nanocomposites as a function of filling content.
 From this figure, it can be seen that all the PVC nanocomposites demonstrate enhancement in impact strength as compared with that of neat PVC (4.3 kJ/m2). It is noted that the impact strength increases with increasing filling contents until 3 wt %, which reaches maximum value (8.4 kJ/m2). It is known that inorganic particles act as the stress concentrators because of their different elastic properties compared with the polymeric matrix.
38 To create toughening effect, the inorganic particles must debond from the matrix with a suitable interfacial interaction.
 As a result, a significant toughening effect on PVC matrix was observed at low filling content of hybrid nanocomposites (3 wt %).  The tensile strength of PVC nanocomposites as a function of filling content is given in Figure 6. It is observed that the treated nanosilicas indeed could reinforce the PVC matrix more effectively in comparison with that of untreated nanosilicas.
  The PMMA-grafted-SiO2 hybrid nanoparticles should have better dispersion in PVC matrix because of the improvement of nanosilica dispersion and the compatibility of PMMA with PVC matrix.
 The tensile yield stress increases with the increase of the filling content until 3 wt %, followed by a reduction at higher filling content.
 7) shows a quick increase of rigidity up to a content of hybrid nanoparticle around 3 wt %, followed by a slight reduction at higher filling content.
 This result suggests that the presence of the hybrid nanoparticles causes the rigidity of the resulting composites to increase (especially when the filler content was equal to 3 wt %). ## Barrier properties  Inorganic particles are considered impenetrable by gas molecules.
39, 40 In addition to sheet-like morphology of layered silicates, the spherical shape of silica nanoparticles have also reduction effect on the gas diffusion through the material. Although treatment of nanoparticles through graft polymerization and application of the grafted nanoparticles in making polymeric nanocomposites have been investigated, there has been scarce effort at measuring the effect of the particulate filler on permeability of gases and even scarcer for silica-filled PVC nanocomposites.
13, 14 Thus, the permeability of oxygen and water were also measured to evaluate the enhancement effect of the filling of PMMA-grafted-SiO2 hybrid nanocomposites.
  The permeability of O2 and H2O of the prepared PVC nanocomposites as a function of filling content is presented in Figure 8. From these measurements, it can be observed that permeability of both of O2 and H2O is reduced significantly with increasing PMMA-grafted-SiO2 filling content up to 3 wt %. However, the different tread appears when further increasing the filling content.
 When filling 4 wt % of hybrid nanoparticles, the oxygen transmission increase quickly even higher than that of neat PVC; however, in the case of water transmission, after the filling content of 3 wt %, it followed by a slight increase at higher filling content.
 These results suggest that the microstructure of the PVC nanoparticles has different effects on the O2 and H2O permeability.
32 Too high content of filling increases the permeability of both O2 and H2O, especially in the case of O2. According to simple composite theory for nonsorbing particles, the penetrability should be dependent on gas type, filler content, and surface treatment.
30 When relatively higher hybrid silica nanoparticles have been filled into PVC matrix, agglomeration phenomenon seem more likely owing to the tendency of nanoscale silica hybrid nanoparticles to be fused together.
32 This will lead to increase in the free volume cavity size and result in great increase in permeability of O2 even higher than that of neat PVC (Fig.
 8 filling 4 wt %). However, when the formed voids do not dominate the permeation,27 there should be little effect on the barrier property of polymeric nanocomposite, i.
, in the case of H2O in the present system.
