Dielectric Integrity of High-Temperature NanocompositesThe addition of nanoscale metal oxide fillers to polymers has been shown, in many cases, to lead to an improvement in the dielectric breakdown strength and voltage endurance. In this paper, dielectric properties for silica- and alumina-filled polyamideimide (PAI) thin films are reported as a function of particle loading. The dispersion and thermal behavior are quantified. Experiments were also conducted using particulates which were functionalized with Aminopropyltriethoxysilane in order to augment the chemical bonding to the host matrix. The glass transition temperature and decomposition temperature are reported as a function of nanoparticle type and loading. The dielectric strength is provided for both AC and DC voltages. It was found that the enhancement in breakdown strength for a nanocomposite formulation is greater under DC conditions than AC. In addition, alumina filled PAI was found to exhibit greater electrical breakdown strength than silica filled PAI. A discussion of possible reasons is included.['Addition of nanoscale particles to polymers has been shown to improve the electrical breakdown strength and the voltage endurance strength [1-6]. The mechanisms leading to this improvement are attributed primarily to the properties of the interfacial polymer [4,7]. Due to the small size of the filler, the volume of interfacial polymer is large and can have different free volume, trap site density and depth, and conductivity than the bulk polymer.
 This can lead to increased trapping, improved distribution of local charge, decreased mobility, and increased scattering, all of which can contribute to improved dielectric properties.
 The majority of these studies on nanofilled polymers, however, have been done for room temperature applications.
 In this paper, we focus on the properties of nanosilica and nanoalumina filled polyamideimide for potential use in high temperature wire insulation.
 Polyamideimide emerged as the best material for this research because it has both a high operating temperature and few disqualifying attributes, such as tendencies for hydrolysis (as in polyimides) or major processing difficulties.
 Polyamideimide was first developed for insulation of magnet wire [8]. Polyamideimide, in some forms, is also melt processable, so it can be used in molding and extrusion processes [8]. In addition to reporting the AC and DC breakdown strength, the thermal stability of the composites and polymer will be summarized.
 SEM and TEM images illustrating the importance of dispersion to the breakdown strength are also presented.
'].
 5 and Table II indicate that moisture uptake is not significant enough to cause changes in breakdown strength for the ambient conditions in our laboratories.
 PAI is known to absorb less than 1 wt% moisture under high humidity conditions [8] and based on our TGA measurements, is less than that at ambient conditions.
 Particle Effects Figures 6 and 7 show the AC and DC electrical breakdown results for the unfilled and nanofilled composites.
 Breakdown strength of PAI coating on wire is approximately 360 kV/mm [12]. Given the different configuration of the samples discussed here, this is within the same data range.
 There is a clear dispersion difference due to the fractal nature of fumed silica that may play a role as dispersion is known to be critical in controlling breakdown strength [2,7]. Another possibility, however, is that the polymer interfacial region is different for the two types of nanoparticles.
 The enhanced DC breakdown performance, when compared with peak AC, is in accordance with previous work [7]. It is likely the result of differences in space charge accumulation and is currently under investigation using pulsed electroacoustic analysis.
