In situ preparation of functionalized graphene oxide/epoxy nanocomposites with effective reinforcementsIn order to obtain homogeneous dispersion and strong filler-matrix interface in epoxy resin, graphene oxide was functionalized via surface modification by hexachlorocyclotriphosphazene and glycidol and then incorporated into epoxy resin to obtain nanocomposites via in situ thermal polymerization. The morphology of nanocomposites was characterized by scanning electron microscopy and transmission electron microscopy, implying good dispersion of graphene nano-sheets. The incorporation of functionalized graphene oxide effectively enhanced various property performances of epoxy nanocomposites. The storage modulus of the epoxy nanocomposites was significantly increased by 113% (2% addition) and the hardness was improved by 38% (4% addition). Electrical conductivity was improved by 6.5 orders of magnitude. Enhanced thermal stability was also achieved. This work demonstrates a cost-effective approach to construct a flexible interphase structure, strong interfacial interaction and good dispersion of functionalized graphene in epoxy nanocomposites through a local epoxy-rich environment around graphene oxide sheets, which reinforces the polymer properties and indicates further application in research and industrial areas. ["Nanocomposite, as a fresh member of advanced materials family, has attracted an accelerating pace of researches in both academic and commercial communities in recent years.
1–5 The motivation for such popularity mainly stems from the combination effect of nano-additives and matrix which leads to significantly enhanced mechanical, optical, thermal, electronic, or magnetic properties.
6–8 There has been a growing interest in incorporating nanoparticles (nanospheres, nanotubes, nanorods, nanoplatelets, etc.
) into polymer matrix to enhance various properties such as thermal stability, mechanical properties and flame retardancy.
8–12 One of the controlling factors for polymer nanocomposites is attributed to the compatibility between the nano-filler and the polymeric matrix which determines the dispersion and interface interaction of constitutive phases and further influences the macroscopic property.
8 Chemical modification is effective to manipulate the physical and chemical properties of nano-fillers, as well as to improve the compatibility, dispersion and interfacial interaction of nano-fillers in polymer matrix.
13  Recently, a fresh new 2D material, graphene, has triggered numerous fundamental and technological studies.
14Graphene is a single-atom-thick form of carbon layer with unique properties including quantum Hall effect, 2D Dirac fermions, high values of aspect ratio, specific surface, Young's modulus, fracture strength, thermal conductivity, and electron mobility, etc.
,15–18 which make graphene and graphene derivatives (e.
g.
, graphene/graphite oxide, functionalized graphene, etc.
) very promising for various applications such as hydrogen storage,19 sensors,20,21 transparent conductive films,22 batteries,23–25 supercapacitors,26,27 solar cells28,29 and polymer nanocomposites.
30–32Graphene has been used as a build block for new polymer nanocomposites to obtain significantly enhanced properties.
33–41 However, due to the high surface area and strong van der Waals force, graphene nano-sheets are usually apt to re-aggregate and stack, restricting its application in polymer nanocomposites.
30,33,42 Thus, tremendous approaches have been exploited to functionalize graphene to fabricate derivatives which may improve its dispersion and interface interaction in a polymeric matrix.
13,30,43 Intrigued by this, our current research is designed to fabricate functionalized graphene oxide (FGO) using modification agents with reactive groups which can be chemically bonded with polymer chains via in situpolymerization, facilitating the dispersion and increasing the interaction of graphene nano-sheets in the polymer matrix.
  Epoxy resin is one of the most widely used polymers in structural complexes, coatings, adhesives, hardware components, semiconductor encapsulation and electronic circuit board materials due to its high performance properties such as tensile strength, high stiffness, exceptional electrical strength and excellent chemical resistance, etc.
44,45 However, there are still some problems with epoxy resin in industrial applications such as its brittleness and weak flame resistance.
 To address this, many strategies have been adopted to improve the performance of epoxy resins such as chemical modification and filler addition.
46 For example, incorporation of nano-fillers such as clay, carbon nanotubes (CNTs) and layered double hydroxides (LDHs) can efficiently improve the properties of epoxy nanocomposites.
47–60 Besides that, some works have already been carried out to investigate epoxy/graphene composites.
 A “two-phase extraction” method was performed to load chemically converted graphene oxide into epoxy resin, and the toughness was increased by 1185.2%.61 Later, long-chain aromatic amines which are chemically similar to the curing agent were bonded on the surface of graphene by diazonium addition to obtain molecular level dispersion of graphene in epoxy, and remarkable enhancements were obtained.
62  Because of the oxygen functional groups, graphene/graphite oxide is the starting material for further functionalization.
21,32,63–68 Herein, FGO was prepared from graphite oxide (GO) by surface modification with hexachlorocyclotriphosphazene (HCTP) and glycidol, and was then incorporated into epoxy resin via in situcuring polymerization.
 The HCTP can effectively increase the reactive points on the graphene oxide surface, bringing extra advantages to improve the dispersion and interaction of graphene in epoxy.
 The epoxy-rich environment around FGO sheets facilitates the chemical bonding between filler and epoxy matrix, which will improve the dispersion and interface and bring effective enhancements in various properties.
 "].
["##3.1 Characterization of GO and FGO The morphology and thickness of GO and FGO were investigated viaAFM which offers immediate evidence for ultra-thin nano-sheets (Fig.
 1). The size of GO mainly covers 0.2–1 μm and the thickness is about 1.0 nm (Fig.
 1a), indicating one-atom-thick graphene oxide.
69,70FGO is a little “bumpy” and thicker (1.5 nm) than GO, in all probability due to the bonding of HCTP/glycidol. Besides that, the edge of the FGO is rougher than GO, which is also attributed to the bonding of HCTP/glycidol. The change of nano-layer morphology and thickness indicate the successful functionalization in FGO.
 2 shows the IR spectra of pristine GO and FGO.
71–73 After modification, a series of new peaks appears: the peaks at 2977 cm−1, 2940 cm−1, 1476 cm−1 and 1408 cm−1 are attributed to the –CH2– vibration from glycidol; the peak at 1173 cm−1 is associated with the P[double bond, length as m-dash]N vibration from HCTP; the peak at 1077 cm−1 is due to the C–O vibration; the peaks at 1035 cm−1 and 805 cm−1 are assigned to the P–O group, and the peaks at 1241 cm−1 and 847 cm−1 can be ascribed to the P–N group.
 The P–Cl group from HCTP at 601 cm−1 can hardly be observed.
 The C1s XPS spectra of GO (Fig.
 3a) present three types of carbon: C–C (284.8 eV), C–O (287.3 eV) and O–C[double bond, length as m-dash]O (289.4 eV), in good agreement with earlier work.
74 Obvious changes in the binding energy and intensity can be detected in the C1s XPS spectra of GO (Fig.
 3b) which can be attributed to the functionalization.
 The oxygen containing functionalities are weakened and a new peak at 285.5 eV appears, corresponding to the C–O–P group, which confirms the successful modification based on GO.
75 From the combination of AFM, FTIR and XPS results, it is clear that graphene oxide has successfully been functionalized with HCTP/glycidol.  ##3.2 Structural characterization of FGO/EP nanocomposites It is well known that the dispersion and interface interaction of nano-fillers in a polymeric matrix are two key factors for polymer nanocomposites.
32 The fracture surface of the EP/1%FGO nanocomposite was observed using scanning electron microscopy to obtain direct visualization of FGO dispersed in the EP matrix and the image is shown in Fig.
 4. It is clear that the FGO/EP nanocomposite (Fig.
 4b) has a rough fracture surface, owing to the embedding of FGO nano-sheets in the epoxy matrix which is a clear evidence of the strong interaction between the FGO nano-sheets and the EP matrix.
 Electron microscopy images of EP and nanocomposites: (a) SEM observation of the fracture surface of EP; (b) SEM micrograph of the fracture surface of EP/1%FGO nanocomposite; (c) TEM observation of the ultrathin section of EP/1%FGO nanocomposite; (d) TEM observation of the ultrathin section of EP/2%FGO nanocomposite.
  The inner structures of the EP nanocomposites with 1% and 2% of FGO fillers were examined by the TEM technique (Fig.
 4 c,d), from which we can observe a homogenous and uniform dispersion of FGO nano-sheets.
 The good dispersion of FGO in the EP matrix is due to the epoxy functional groups in FGO which chemically bond with the curing agent and the EP matrix (Scheme 1). Due to the large aspect ratio and layered structure, FGO can act as a physical barrier to slow down the transfer of combustible pyrolysis products, oxygen and the feedback energy, increasing the thermal stability of the nanocomposites.
68,76  ##3.3 Thermal performance of FGO/EP nanocomposites Thermogravimetric analysis and differential thermogravimetric (DTG) plots for the GO, FGO, EP and FGO/EP nanocomposites in N2 atmosphere were investigated and the results are shown in Fig.
 5. For GO (Fig.
 5a), the first mass loss stage below 100 °C is attributed to the evaporation of adsorbed water, and the main mass loss occurring at around 200 °C is caused by the decomposition of labile oxygen functional groups.
77,78 The steady loss observed at 300–700 °C is due to the combustion of the residual char with a char yield of 47.4% obtained at 700 °C.
77 In the case of FGO (Fig.
 5a), the onset degradation temperature defined as the 5% mass loss temperature increases from 112 °C to 175 °C, suggesting that the labile oxygen functional groups in GO have partly been replaced by HCTP.
 The main weight loss of FGO around 200 °C is attributed to the residual oxygen functional groups, while the second mass loss between 250 and 350 °C is presumably assigned to the decomposition of the glycidol in FGO.
 Similar to GO, the steady mass loss above 350 °C is due to the decomposition of the residual char with a reduction of char yield: 37.1% at 700 °C.
 5a), the thermal degradation processes mainly occur at 370–480 °C.
 In comparison with EP, the onset degradation temperatures of FGO/EP nanocomposites were decreased due to the thermal degradation of FGO; the maximum decomposition temperatures (Tmax) are increased by 5–10 °C and the final char residues at 700 °C are also increased; the DTG curves (Fig.
 5b) show a 27% reduction in the maximum decomposition rate.
 All of those improvements indicate increased thermal stability, which can be attributed to the physical barrier effect of FGO nano-sheets, the increased interaction between FGO nano-sheets and EP matrix68,76 and the nitrogen-phosphorus flame retardant effect of HTCP.
79–82 In addition, the increase of char residual can form char barrier to protect the nanocomposite surface from oxygen, as a mass and heat barrier which also enhances the thermal stability.
83–86 TGA (a) and DTG (b) curves of GO, FGO, EP and FGO/EP nanocomposites in N2 atmosphere.
 6). EP presents characteristic absorption peaks at 3409, 2961, 1606, 1508, 1461, 1242, 1181, 1034 and 823 cm−1.87 The peak at 3409 cm−1 almost disappears above 250 °C due to the release of water, which is in accordance with the TGA results.
 Other characteristic peaks keep their relative intensities below 350 °C but almost disappear above 380 °C, indicating the occurrence of main decomposition.
 The FTIR spectrum of EP/2%FGO shows analogous characters in comparison with EP.
 In comparison with EP, a similar trend is observed below 300 °C, but the EP/2% FGO nanocomposite presents obviously smaller relative intensities at 350 °C, indicting that FGO may catalyze the degradation of epoxy, which can be assumed as one reason why the FGO/EP nanocomposite has a lower onset decomposition temperature as shown in the TGA section.
  ##3.4 Mechanical properties performed by DMA and toughness According to earlier literature, graphene and graphene/graphite (oxide) are very effective to enhance the mechanical properties of polymer composites.
32,61,62,88–90 The enhancement of FGO on the mechanical properties of the FGO/EP nanocomposite is evaluated using dynamic mechanical analysis as a function of temperature.
 7 presents the storage modulus curves (a) and loss angle tangent (b) of the pristine EP and FGO/EP nanocomposites.
 Continuous improvement of storage modulus is obtained with the increase of FGO amount until EP/2%FGO.
 At the initial temperature (30 °C), the storage modulus is 1.5 GPa for pure EP; it reaches the ultimate value of 3.2 GPa, a 113% increase, with 2% FGO.
 However, it decreases when introducting more FGO and it is even lower than that of pure EP when it contains 5% FGO.
 For pure EP, the energy dissipation begins at about 75 °C which can be seen from the loss angle tangent curves (Fig.
 7b). Due to the confinement effect, the initial transition temperatures of nanocomposites containing small amounts of FGO (less than 2%) shift to higher temperatures of about 95–105 °C, and their relaxation occurs in a narrower temperature range which can be ascribed to the enhancement of interfacial interaction between the EP matrix and FGO as well as the lamellar barrier effect of the nano-flakes restricting the segmental motion of the polymer chains in the matrix at low temperature (below 110 °C). When containing high contents of FGO fillers (more than 3%) as discussed above, the initial transition temperatures of the nanocomposites decrease, the glass transition temperature (Tg) is named as the loss factor (Tan delta) peaks to maximum.
 The Tg occurs at 138 °C for pure EP, whereas it shifts to lower temperatures for nanocomposites, presumably due to the “cross-linking density reduction” effect.
91 Remarkable improvements in ball-indentation hardness with the increase of FGO contents are shown in Fig.
 8. The hardness is improved with the addition of FGO compared with that of pure EP.
 A 32% improvement in hardness is obtained by the addition of 4% FGO, which can be assumed as evidence for the increase of interactions between FGO and the EP matrix.
 The hardness of EP/5%FGO is also decreased due to the “cross-linking density reduction” effect.
  ##3.5 Electrical properties Carbon materials such as graphene, CNTs, carbon fibers and carbon black are widely used to improve the electrical conductivity of composite materials.
37,92,93 Herein, the volume resistivity (ρv) of EP and FGO/EP nanocomposites was studied and the average is summarized in Fig.
 8. Neat EP shows a resistance of 1017.0 Ω·cm and FGO/EP nanocomposites have a much smaller resistance.
 The maximum decrement is about 6.5 orders of magnitude in EP/5%FGO.
31,94  The reinforcement effect of nano-fillers to polymer hosts largely depends on the efficiency of load transfer at the interface and the dispersion of nano-fillers.
32,61,62 However, FGO has a small effect to improve the thermal stability of epoxy, compared with clay, CNTs and LDHs.
95–102 This is probably because of the high value of thermal conductivity of graphene which cannot act as a heat barrier to slow down heat diffusion.
 Compared with other nano-fillers such as clay103,104 and CNTs, FGO in our work has been in the top class, if not the best, to enhance the mechanical properties of the epoxy composites.
 In earlier work, when CNTs were incorporated into epoxy without chemical functionalization, it reached a 20% increase in elastic modulus;105 with a small amount of copolymer as a dispersant, it reached a 50% increase in Young's modulus.
106Methacrylate-functionalized CNT increased the storage modulus by 50%, and amine-functionalized CNT led to a 60% increase.
107 Poly(amidoamine)-functionalized CNT reached a 122% increase in Young's modulus.
108 "].
