Graphite nanoplatelets/polymer nanocomposites: thermomechanical, dielectric, and functional behavior Exfoliated graphite nanoplatelets (GNP)/epoxy resin nanocomposites were prepared and tested, varying the amount of the filler content. Systems’ morphology was investigated by means of scanning electron microscopy, while their thermal response was examined via differential scanning calorimetry (DSC). Broadband dielectric spectroscopy and dynamic mechanical thermal analysis were employed in order to characterize the produced systems. Static mechanical tests were also conducted at ambient. Reinforced systems exhibit improved performance under mechanical and electrical excitation. In particular, storage modulus increases systematically with GNP content. DSC results imply that glass transition temperature is not affected by the presence of GNP. Flexural modulus and storage modulus, as determined by static and dynamic mechanical tests, respectively, increased with filler content. Dielectric permittivity increases also systematically with GNP content. Recorded relaxation processes arise from the glass to rubber transition of the polymer matrix (α-mode), re-orientation of polar side groups of the polymer chains (β-mode), and interfacial polarization because of the accumulation of charges at the systems’ interface. Finally, the energy storing efficiency of the nanocomposites enhances with reinforcing phase in the examined frequency and temperature range. Optimum performance corresponds to the nanocomposite with maximum GNP loading. [' Nowadays emerging technologies such as cellular phones, wireless personal digital assistants, leakage current controllers, and stationary power systems exhibit an increasing interest on flexible, high dielectric permittivity, and thermomechanical strength composite materials [1, 2]. Polymer matrix nanocomposites are characterized by high dielectric permittivity and strength, thermomechanical stability, ease processing, and relative low cost.
 Furthermore, polymer nanocomposites could be proved useful in applications where embedded capacitors are required for energy storage [3, 4]. The electrical response of these composites can be suitably adjusted by controlling the type and the amount of the filler [5–7]. Further, the distribution of semiconducting and/or conductive nanoinclusions within the polymer matrix produces a network of nanocapacitors.
 The embedded nanocapacitors could act as energy storing devices, introducing a new type of nanodevices.
  Carbon nanoinclusions, such as carbon nanofibres, carbon nanotubes (CNT), and exfoliated graphite nanoplatelets (GNP), are considered preferential reinforcing phase for polymer nanocomposites, because of their advanced mechanical, electrical, and thermal performance [8]. CNTs and GNPs exhibit high stiffness, electrical, and thermal conductivity, based on their chemistry similarities and structural characteristics [8, 9]. GNPs are produced via intensive intercalation of graphite flakes, which leads to the formation of single graphite layers or stacks of few graphite layers [8].  In this study, GNPs are used as epoxy reinforcements, resulting in composites with improved dielectric and thermo-mechanical properties.
 Electrical characterization of the composites was conducted by means of broadband dielectric spectroscopy (BDS), while viscoelastic properties were determined using a dynamic mechanical analyzer, and the morphology was investigated by means of scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Composite systems exhibit relaxations arising from both the polymer matrix and the reinforcing phase.
 The incorporation of GNP appears to be beneficial to both dielectric and mechanical performance.
 Finally, the energy storing efficiency of the composites is examined with parameters the temperature, the frequency of the field, and the amount of the employed filler.
 '].
 1. SEM images reveal that the GNP inclusions are homogeneously distributed within the polymer matrix, although, nanodispersions co-exist with small agglomerates.
 The determined values of Tg for all specimens are listed in Table 1. Tg values can be considered as remaining constant, implying indirectly that the adhesion between matrix and filler, and the wetting level of the inclusions by the resin is adequate.
 Nanocomposites, where adhesion between the constituents and wetting level of inclusions is poor, exhibit lower values of Tg than that of the corresponding neat matrix [10–13].  The variation of storage modulus as a function of filler content for GNP composites is shown in Fig.
 2a.
 Storage modulus increases with the content of filler at ambient, and nanocomposites exhibit higher values of storage modulus than neat epoxy from ambient temperature up to 100 °C.
 Optimum performance is exhibited by the system incorporating 10 phr GNP, which demonstrates the highest storage modulus from all the examined composites in the whole temperature range.
 At temperatures above 110 °C, storage modulus of all composites presents an abrupt decrease.
 2b.
 However, with the exception of the nanocomposite with 3 phr in GNP content, loss peaks position slightly changes, implying that Tg is not significantly affected by the presence of filler.
 Although the response of the 3 phr GNP/epoxy composite should re-examined, its discrepancy might be due to preferential alignment/orientation of the polymer chains with respect to the GNP platelets an effect that subsides, as the GNP content increases, and the mobility of the polymer chains decreases.
  Note that the curve of the 7 phr GNP/epoxy nanocomposite, in Fig.
 2b, almost coincides with the curve of the 10 phr GNP/epoxy nanocomposite.
 3. As it can be seen flexural modulus increases with filler content, being in accordance with the general trend of the DMTA results, and the best performance is observed for the composite with the highest GNP loading.
  Figure 4 presents 3-dimensional plots of the real part of dielectric permittivity (ε′) as a function of the frequency of the applied field and temperature for neat epoxy (Fig.
 4a), and composites with 3 (Fig.
 4b) and 7 phr (Fig.
 4c) in GNP content, respectively.
 In the low frequency range, ε′ enhances, because sufficient time is given to the dipoles to be oriented with the field [14, 15]. Permittivity increases also with temperature due to the thermal agitation and the raised mobility of the dipoles.
 Electric modulus has been proved very effective in describing dielectric data [16–20], since by its own definition is a normalized quantity neglecting the influence of electrode polarization [16]. For this reason, dielectric data were transformed, via Eq.
 (1), to the electric modulus formalism.
  Electric modulus is defined as the reverse quantity of the complex dielectric permittivity: M∗=1ε∗=ε′ε′2+ε′′2+iε′′ε′2+ε′′2 (1)  where ε′, ε″ and M′, M″ are the real and imaginary parts of dielectric permittivity and electric modulus, respectively.
  Figure 5 depicts the variation of the imaginary part of electric modulus as a function of frequency and temperature, for the same systems shown in Fig.
 4. Dielectric spectra of all three systems include two loss peaks related to relaxation processes.
 Dielectric losses of the 7 GNP/epoxy nanocomposite are presented in a 2-dimensional graph of M′′ as a function of frequency at various temperatures.
  AC conductivity as a function of frequency and temperature, for the systems with 0, 3, and 7 phr in GNP content, is shown in Fig.
 6. Conductivity values exhibit large dispersion with both temperature and frequency.
 At constant temperature, conductivity seems to follow the ac universality law [21], expressed by Eq.
 (2): σAC=σDC+A(ω)s (2)  where σ DC is the DC limiting value of conductivity, ω the angular frequency, and A, s parameters related to the under test material and temperature.
 Equation (2) has been proved capable to describe the frequency dependence of conductivity in many amorphous and disordered systems [22, 23]. According to the von Hippel [24] AC conductivity sums all dissipative processes including dipolar effects and an actual ohmic conductivity due to charge carriers migration.
 However, charges are able to “hop” between adjacent conductive sites, contributing thus to the recorded overall conductivity [22]. Furthermore, conductivity increases with GNP content as expected.
  The variation of the real part of dielectric permittivity with temperature at constant frequency f = 1 Hz for all studied systems is presented in Fig.
 7. The real part of dielectric permittivity increases systematically with GNP content in the whole temperature range.
 Above Tg, approximately at 120 °C, the increased mobility of large parts of the polymer chains contributes to the rising of the ε′ values.
 IP occurs in heterogeneous systems, especially in the case when permittivity and conductivity of the constituents differ significantly [13, 16]. Unbounded charges, the origin of which is related to the state of the specimens’ preparation, accumulate at the interface between matrix and filler where they form large dipoles.
 7 at temperatures higher than 130 °C.
 (3): U=12ε0ε′E2 (3)  where ε 0 is the permittivity of fee space and E the electric field’s intensity.
 (3) energy density increases rapidly with the applied field and is limited by the material’s breakdown strength.
 (3) is ε′, and energy density dependence on frequency and temperature is analogous of that of permittivity.
 The dependence of energy density upon frequency, for all studied systems, at 30 °C is shown in Fig.
 8a.
 Figure 8b presents the variation of energy density with temperature, for all studied systems, at f = 1 Hz.
