Multiple-shape memory behavior of nanocomposite based on polymethylmethacrylate/poly (lactic acid)/graphene nanoplatelets (PMMA/PLA/GNP) In this study, nanocomposite samples based on polymethylmethacrylate/poly (lactic acid)/graphene nanoplatelets (PMMA/PLA/GNP) were prepared via melt mixing method and thermal multiple shape memory was induced. Dynamic mechanical thermal analysis results showed that two polymers are miscible in the selected blend ratio (70/30, 50/50, 30/70 w/w; PLA/PMMA) and was not affected by the presence of GNP (1 and 2 phr). The dispersion and distribution status of GNP were observed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The co-continuous morphology was dominant in all samples due to complete miscibility of two phases. Multi-shape memory was induced using a tensile test machine equipped with the hot oven at 65 and 100 °C. The results revealed that shape recovery was affected by the presence of GNP at high temperature(for example increasing from 93.34% in neat PLA/PMMA(50/50 w/w) to 96.67% in the sample containing 1 phr of GNP) while there was no considerable effect at low temperature. At high temperature, amorphous phases of two polymers are extended and un-melted chains of PMMA can be as hard segment and leads to good recovery. Due to nucleation and reinforcement effects of GNP, the higher degree of crystallization of PLA and higher storage modulus were obtained and caused to the enhancement of the shape fixity values at the presence of GNP. [' During past decade, shape memory polymers (SMPs) have attracted significant interest due to their excellent and unique properties [1,2,3,4]. Multiple shape memory polymers (multi-SMPs) are a new class of smart material which are capable of undergoing a large recoverable deformations in two or more steps via trigging using heat [5, 6], electricity [7], magnetic field [8], light [3, 6, 9], moisture [10] and chemical stimulus such as pH [11].  Thermo-induced multi-SMPs based on miscible blends can be a good candidate for many applications owing to their broad region of the glass transition.
 A broad glass transition temperature can facilitate thermal induction in two or more steps in thermal programming section.
 Samuel et al. prepared a multi-SMPs based on PLLA/PMMA via melt mixing method [12]. They found that the most miscibility and broadest glass transition was in 50/50 w/w of two phases.
 A good and feasible triple shape memory performance was attained in this blend ratio.
 More recently, using nanoparticles such as nano clay, carbon nanotube, nano-silicon carbides and other nanosized filler in SMP materials have been reported in the literature [13,14,15,16,17]. The main reason for the addition of nanoparticles into SMPs is to compensate for the low recovery rate of this material. Among the nanoparticles, graphene nanoplatelets (GNPs) present amazing properties because of their high specific area, electrical and thermal conductivity, high modulus and strains and low density.
  GNPs in pristine and functionalized forms were used in our group for preparing some SMP systems based on PLA and its positive effects were observed on the shape fixity and shape recovery as the main indices of shape memory behavior [18,19,20,21]. The main goal of this work was to investigate the effect of GNP on the multi-SMPs properties of miscible PLA/PMMA blend.
 Thermal triple steps multi-SMPs was induced based on glass transition temperature in this blend and the effect of the incorporation of GNP was studied.
 Nanocomposite samples including different blend ratios (25/75, 50/50, 75/25 w/w) and GNP content were prepared via melt mixing method and their multi-shape memory performance was evaluated using tensile test machine equipped with the hot chamber.
 '].
 Figure 2 demonstrates some typical SEM micrographs of the samples at low magnification (3k×) including neat PLA/PMMA blend (in 50/50 w/w blend ratio) and its nanocomposite containing 1 and 1 phr GNP.
 It is well known that in the polymeric miscible blend, the breakup of the minor phase never occurred due to zero interfacial tension between two phases, thus distributive mixing is the only process in these systems and there is no disintegration of the phases [22]. Nanocomposite micrographs show the morphology of two phases is not affected by the addition of GNP and the presence of GNP could not change the co-continuous morphology.
  Figure 3 shows SEM images of the nanocomposite samples at higher magnification (20 KX). In the samples containing 1 phr of GNP, the dimension of GNP was measured in the range of 50–80 nm which means the stacks layers were partially exfoliated.
 By the increase of GNP to 2 phr, some agglomerates were observed (Fig.
 3c, d) owing to the high specific surface area of the GNP.
 Figure 4 shows the storage modulus and Fig.
 5 displays tan δ versus temperature for the neat polymers (PLA and PMMA), blend sample in 50/50 w/w ratio and its nanocomposite containing 1 and 2 phr GNP.
  The glass transition of the samples was obtained from storage modulus curves according to ASTM E-1640 and the results are summarized in Table 2.  There is one step drop for blend and nanocomposite samples in storage modulus curves which implies to miscibility of the samples.
 The increase of storage modulus for neat PLA around 110 °C may be attributed to cold crystallization.
 On the other hand, as can be seen in Table 2, the glass transition temperatures of the PLA and PMMA are 70.3 and 121.5 °C, respectively.
 By blending of these polymers a single glass transition was determined at 82.7 °C which indicates to fully miscibility of two phases.
 This trend was also observed in tan δ curves by appearing a single (tan δ)max at 101.9 °C.
 The increment of the aforesaid temperatures of the samples containing 1 phr of GNP was higher than that of samples including 2 phr.
 This is because of the existence of GNP agglomerates in the sample with 2 phr of GNP.
 At T high (100 °C), both of polymers were able to extend, however, the chains of PLA was more extended due to the bigger difference from its Tg.
 Typical shape memory behavior of the neat blend (50/50 w/w) and nanocomposites are shown in Fig.
 6. In addition, Figs.
 7 and 8 show shape memory behavior of nanocomposite containing 1 and 2 phr, respectively.
 The neat blend was chosen as the reference sample and the programming temperature was T high = 100 °C (Tg,blend + 18 °C) and T mid = 65 °C (Tg,blend − 18 °C). It seems at the lower temperature, because of being above the glass transition temperature of PLA, the applied stress could be relaxed in PLA phase and the main stored energy belongs to PMMA in this step of extension.
 The obtained results for shape fixity and recovery are summarized in Table 3. Although the fixity values are lowering than those of reported in the literature, one can find the fixity and recovery are influenced by the presence of nanoparticles in the samples [12]. It is well known that the shape fixity is controlled by the amount of un-locked oriented chains [5]. If a certain stress is applied; all polymeric chains experience the same level of deformation in the extending step.
  As it is seen, the shape recovery values show an improvement from 93.34% in neat PLA/PMMA to 96.67% in the sample containing 1 phr of GNP at 100 °C whereas, at 65 °C, the recovery values were low and were not affected by the presence of GNP significantly.
 Upon reheating at 65 °C, the polymer chains tend to recover their original conformation, and because of the low entropic driving force for shape recovery at this temperature, the small recovery was observed.
 In the sample including 2 phr of GNP, due to agglomeration of nanoparticle, this effect was not pronounced and shape recovery was decreased.
