Polymer–Nanoparticle Interfacial Interactions in Polymer Nanocomposites: Confinement Effects on Glass Transition Temperature and Suppression of Physical AgingThe effects of confinement on glass transition temperature (Tg) and physical aging are measured in polystyrene (PS), poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA), and poly(2-vinyl pyridine) (P2VP) nanocomposites containing 10- to 15-nm-diameter silica nanospheres or 47-nm-diameter alumina nanospheres. Nanocomposites are made by spin coating films from sonicated solutions of polymer, nanofiller, and dye. The Tgs and physical aging rates are measured by fluorescence of trace levels of dye in the films. At 0.1–10 vol % nanofiller, Tg values can be enhanced or depressed relative to neat, bulk Tg (Tg,bulk) or invariant with nanofiller content. For alumina nanocomposites, Tg increases relative to Tg,bulk by as much as 16 K in P2VP, decreases by as much as 5 K in PMMA, and is invariant in PS. By analogy with thin polymer films, these results are explained by wetted P2VP–nanofiller interfaces with attractive interactions, nonwetted PMMA–nanofiller interfaces (free space at the interface), and wetted PS–nanofiller interfaces lacking attractive interactions, respectively. The presence of wetted or nonwetted interfaces is controlled by choice of solvent. For example, 0.1–0.6 vol % silica/PMMA nanocomposites exhibit Tg enhancements as large as 5 K or Tg reductions as large as 17 K relative to Tg,bulk when films are made from methyl ethyl ketone or acetic acid solutions, respectively. A factor of 17 reduction of physical aging rate relative to that of neat, bulk P2VP is demonstrated in a 4 vol % alumina/ P2VP nanocomposite. This suggests that a strategy for achieving nonequilibrium, glassy polymeric systems that are stable or nearly stable to physical aging is to incorporate well-dispersed nanoparticles possessing attractive interfacial interactions with the polymer. Keywords: aging; films; fluorescence; glass transition; interfaces; nanocomposites; nanoparticles; photophysics; relaxation; silicates ['It has been known for more than a decade that nanoconfinement can lead to significant changes in the glass transition temperature (Tg) behavior of polymer films.
1–17 Seminal studies by Keddie et al.1 and Forrest et al.2 reported reductions in Tg from the bulk value by ~23 K in 15-nm-thick polystyrene (PS) films supported on a silica substrate and by ~70 K in 29-nm-thick freestanding PS films (two free surfaces), respectively.
 The reductions in Tg observed in ultrathin films were hypothesized to result from reductions in Tg (or enhancement in cooperative segmental mobility) in regions close to the free surface (air–polymer interface). In 2003, Ellison and Torkelson3 employed a novel multilayer/fluorescence method to determine Tgs at specific locations within thin and ultrathin films, including the free surface.
 They observed a 32 K reduction in Tg relative to Tg,bulk in a 14-nm-thick freesurface layer located at the top of bulk, bilayer film.
 Using trilayer films, they also found that a reduction in Tg extended from the free surface several tens of nanometers into the film interior.
 Other recent studies have found that Tgs can be depressed from bulk values in films exceeding 100 nm in thickness.
 For example, Ellison et al.11 found Tg depressions in 300- to 400-nmthick supported poly(t-butyl styrene) films.
 When attractive interactions, for example, hydrogen bonds, are present at a polymer–substrate interface, confinement effects can lead to enhancements rather than depressions in Tg relative to bulk values.
4,5,13–17 Keddie et al.4 and van Zanten et al.5 found enhancements in Tg from Tg,bulk by 4–5 K in 15-nm-thick poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) films and by as much as 50 K in 8-nm-thick poly(2-vinyl pyridine) (P2VP) films, respectively, when attractive polymer–substrate interactions are present.
 The attractive interactions are believed to result from hydrogen bonds between the hydroxyl groups naturally on the silica substrate surfaces and the ester side group in PMMA or the nitrogen atom in P2VP.
 Recently, important connections between the deviations of Tg values or related dynamics in polymer nanocomposites from those of neat, bulk polymers have been made to the many studies of the effects of confinement on Tg in polymer films.
 Molecular dynamics simulations, experiments, and models18–25 have leant support to the concept that the Tgs of polymer nanocomposites can be enhanced or depressed by tuning the polymer–nanofiller interactions and that the effects are similar to those resulting from free surfaces and polymer– substrate interactions in ultrathin polymer films.
 Via experimental studies, Bansal et al.25 have demonstrated an approximate equivalence between ultrathin film thickness and an average interparticle spacing in nanocomposites for two nanofiller surface treatments, resulting in either nonwetting or wetting polymer–nanofiller interfaces.
 In contrast to the many studies on the Tg-nanoconfinement effect (for relevant reviews, see Refs.
 26–29), much less work9,30–39 has been devoted to the effect of confinement on physical aging or structural relaxation in polymer films and nanocomposites.
 This is unfortunate because physical aging, defined as the relaxation process in which a nonequilibrium glass spontaneously evolves toward thermodynamic and structural equilibrium, often results in deleterious changes in properties ranging from brittleness and ultimate elongation to permeability.
 In 2002, Ellison et al.9 reported little change within error in physical aging rate of poly(isobutyl methacrylate) films supported on quartz over a range of thicknesses from 10 to 800 nm.
 In 2003, Kawana and Jones30 monitored PS physical aging at Tg,bulk -30 K and found that physical aging is absent in a 10-nm-thick film, consistent with the notion that the Tg of the 10-nm-thick film is reduced relative to bulk by at least 30 K.
 In 2005, Priestley et al.31,32 employed single layer/and multilayer/fluorescence methods to demonstrate that confinement in PMMA ultrathin films can significantly reduce physical aging rate, a point also made by Fukao and Sakamoto,33 and that the physical aging response in PMMA films is affected by confinement over a larger length scale than is the Tg response.
 Priestley et al.31 further found that physical aging is present in supported ultrathin PMMA films at temperatures above Tg,bulk; this is associated with the enhancement of Tg due to hydrogen bond effects at the polymer–silica substrate interface.
 It is interesting to note that Pfromm and Koros34 and Huang and Paul35,39 have measured permeation across freestanding films of several high Tg polymers as a function of aging time and have found an accelerated reduction in permeability with decreasing thickness below ~1 μm.
 Regarding physical aging of nanocomposites, in 1998, Lee and Lichtenhan36 reported that inclusion of polyhedral oligomeric silsesquioxane (POSS) nanoreinforcements in epoxy retarded the physical aging rate and the time to reach equilibrium.
 More recently, Lu and Nutt37,38 also found reduced relaxation rates and a broader distribution of relaxation times in intercalated silicate-epoxy nanocomposites relative to physical aging rate in neat epoxy.
 Here we report the results of a study in which we control the effects of confinement on Tg and physical aging by tuning the polymer–nanofiller interactions in nanocomposites via choice of polymer, nanofiller, or solvent used in nanocomposite preparation.
 With nanocomposites containing low levels of nanofiller, we demonstrate using fluorescence that Tg values may be either enhanced or depressed substantially relative to bulk Tg values depending on the solvent used in preparing the nanocomposites by spin coating.
 By appropriate choice of nanofiller dispersed in the polymer, we also demonstrate using fluorescence that physical aging can be dramatically suppressed in glassy polymer nanocomposites.
'].
['##Glass Transition Effects in Polymer Nanocomposites The Tgs of polymer nanocomposites were measured as a function of nanofiller concentration, nanofiller type, and polymer species using the temperature dependence of the integrated intensity of pyrene doped as low levels (0.2 wt % or less) in the polymers.
 Figure 1 illustrates a significant increase in the pyrene fluorescence intensity with decreasing temperature in a neat P2VP film.
42–45 However, pyrenyl-type dyes have an advantage in such applications because of their strong absorbance of excitation light and high fluorescence quantum yield.
) Figure 2 shows the normalized integrated fluorescence intensity as a function of temperature for a neat P2VP film and a P2VP–alumina nanocomposite film; in each case, the fluorescence is associated with pyrene dyes doped at trace levels in the polymers.
) Figure 2 makes evident a substantial, 16 K increase in Tg of the P2VP/4 vol % alumina nanocomposite relative to neat, bulk P2VP.
 (It should be noted that this 16 K increase in Tg is not observed when a nanocomposite film is made by solvent casting instead of spin coating.
) Figure 3 shows the effect of nanofiller concentration on the Tg values of polymer–alumina nanocomposites made using PS, PMMA, and P2VP.
 Polystyrene–alumina nanocomposites exhibit no change in Tg within error when nanofiller is present up to 10 vol %. In contrast, PMMA–alumina nanocomposites exhibit a reduction in Tg by 3–5 K at 3–10 vol % nanofiller while the P2VP– alumina nanocomposites exhibit a 12–16 K enhancement in Tg at 3.5–6 vol % nanofiller.
 The reduction in the PMMA Tg with addition of alumina nanofiller is qualitatively consistent with results of Ash et al.18 who previously reported Tg reductions in nanocomposites made by in situ polymerization of PMMA in the presence of alumina nanofiller.
3) The Tg reductions obtained in the current study can be explained in a manner similar to those obtained by Ash et al.18 and are consistent with the modest Tg reductions reported by Roth and Dutcher7 in freely standing PMMA films.
 No previous report has been made regarding the effect of alumina nanofiller on the Tg values of either PS or P2VP.
 However, Xie and Blum46 have noted similarity in the interactions of styrene/2- vinyl pyridine block copolymers with silica and alumina.
 As the P2VP block is well known to undergo strong attractive interactions with silica via hydrogen bonding47,48 while the PS block does not, it is reasonable to assume that a similar behavior applies in the case of alumina nanofiller.
 A previous study3 has shown that in a bulk PS film, the Tg value in an ultrathin layer next to a silica substrate is identical within error to bulk Tg; if the interfacial interaction between PS and alumina is similar to that of PS and silica (where is no attractive interaction), then the presence of alumina nanofiller should have little or no effect on the PS Tg.
 In contrast, the origins of the major enhancement of Tg with alumina nanofiller in P2VP–alumina nanocomposites are presumably due to wetted P2VP–alumina interfaces possessing strong attractive interactions, leading to reductions in cooperative segmental mobility in the polymer and an increase in Tg.
 This explanation of the enhanced Tg values in P2VP–alumina nanocomposites is reinforced by noting that P2VP–silica nanocomposites, which by the nature of interfacial hydrogen bonds have strong attractive polymer–substrate interactions, yield Tg enhancements relative to bulk P2VP.
 When a P2VP nanocomposite is made with 0.4 vol % silica (reported nanosphere diameter of 10–15 nm), its Tg value exceeds the Tg of neat P2VP by 10 K.
 The surface areas at equal volumes of silica nanofiller and alumina nanofiller (reported nanosphere diameter of 47 nm) differ by a factor of \x013.8. This means that if the nanofiller dispersion and the strength of interfacial interactions are comparable in the P2VP–silica and P2VP–alumina nanocomposites, then a Tg enhancement of roughly 10 K relative to neat P2VP may be expected in a P2VP nanocomposite made with 1.5 vol % alumina.
 Figure 3 indicates that the Tg enhancement in such a nanocomposite is \x018 K, in reasonable agreement with expectations.
 Figure 4 compares the impact on Tg of silica nanofiller addition to PMMA when the nanocomposite is prepared in different solvents.
 When the nanocomposite is made using methyl ethyl ketone, an increase in Tg is observed rela- tive to Tg,bulk, with an increase in Tg by 5–6 K in the presence of 0.4–0.5 vol % silica.
 In stark contrast, when the nanocomposites are made using acetic acid, there is a sharp decrease in Tg with increasing nanofiller content, with the PMMA Tg being depressed from Tg,bulk by as much as 17 K in the presence of 0.6 vol % silica.
 A recent study by Roth and Dutcher7 has reported that a 17 K reduction in Tg relative to Tg,bulk was observed in 30-nm-thick freely standing PMMA films.
49 (The sharply contrasting Tg results obtained in the PMMA–silica nanocomposites made using methyl ethyl ketone and acetic acid cannot be explained by a segregation of dye to the nanofiller interface in a nanocomposite made in one solvent but not when made in the other solvent.
 It is well known that the vibrational structure of pyrenyl dye monomer fluorescence is dependent on local polarity,50 which would be substantially different if the BPD dye were segregated at a nanofiller interface as compared with being dispersed in the polymer.
) ##Physical Aging Effects in Polymer Nanocomposites The physical aging behaviors of P2VP–silica and P2VP–alumina nanocomposites were measured using the increase in fluorescence intensity of an intramolecular charge transfer probe, TCJ, as a function of logarithmic aging time to quantify aging rate.
 5), which is also called a ‘‘rotor’’ probe, is very sensitive to local density near Tg.
) Royal and Torkelson51–53 found that rotor probes provided quantitative measures of local physical aging rates and complex relaxation behavior such as asymmetry and ‘‘memory’’ effects in a range of bulk polymers [PS, PMMA, poly(vinyl acetate), poly(isobutyl methacrylate), and polycarbonate]. They also showed51,52 that the data obtained via fluorescence regarding the temperature dependence of physical aging rate and the time to reach equilibrium during aging very near Tg agreed with results obtained by volumetric relaxation and enthalpy relaxation measurements.
 These methods were recently adapted by Priestley et al.31,32 for monitoring physical aging rate (both average and distributions) in thin and ultrathin polymer films.
 (A related fluorescence approach to monitor physical aging in bulk polymer films was recently reported by van den Berg et al.54) Figure 5 illustrates the change in the fluorescence spectrum of the TCJ dye during physical aging of a neat P2VP film after quenching the temperature from 140 °C to the aging temperature of 30 °C, deep in the glassy state.
 In 8 h of physical aging, there is a nearly 35% increase in the fluorescence intensity of the TCJ dyes doped in the P2VP film.
 Figure 6 compares the change in fluorescence intensity during physical aging of neat P2VP to the changes observed in two P2VP nanocomposites, one with 0.4 vol % silica and the second with 4 vol % alumina.
 In the case of the neat P2VP film, the fluorescence intensity increases roughly linearly with logarithmic physical aging time.
52,53,55–57) However, there is a much reduced effect of physical aging time on fluorescence intensity in the P2VP nanocomposite made with 0.4 vol % silica and a nearly invariant fluorescence intensity in the P2VP nanocomposites made with 4 vol % alumina.
 In analogy with a definition of physical aging rate obtained in volumetric relaxation studies 56,57 [rate = -(1/V0)(dV/d log tage), where V (V0) is the specific volume at aging time tage (t0)], a fluorescence physical aging rate, rf, may be defined31,32,52 as follows:  rf = (1/F0)(dF/d log tage) where F (F0) is the fluorescence intensity at aging time tage (t0). (The fact that F increases when V decreases accounts for the different sign, positive versus negative, in the equations for fluorescence physical aging rate and volumetric physical aging rate.
) When eq 1 is applied to the data in Figure 6, it is seen that fluorescence physical aging rate (calculated with tage in units of minutes) decreases in the following manner: rf = 0.17 for neat P2VP, rf = 0.04 for 0.4 vol % silica/P2VP nanocomposites, and rf = 0.01 for 4 vol % alumina/P2VP nanocomposites.
 It is interesting to note that both suppression of physical aging and the Tg enhancement are greater in the 4 vol % alumina nanocomposite than in the 0.4 vol % silica nanocomposite.
 The factor of 4 to 17 reduction in physical aging rate of the nanocomposites relative to neat P2VP is consistent with recent measurements by Priestley et al.32 of the distribution of physical aging rates in PMMA films supported on silica substrates.
 Relative to the bulk PMMA physical aging rate, a factor of 15 reduction in physical aging rate was observed deep in the glassy state of the 25-nm-thick layer next to the silica substrate in a supported bulk PMMA film.
 Furthermore, the physical aging rate was reduced from the bulk PMMA rate at length scales at least 100 nm away from the substrate interface in the film interior.
 The order of magnitude reduction of physical aging rate of the P2VP/alumina nanocomposite relative to that of bulk P2VP as well as the results of Priestley et al.32 suggest that a potential strategy to suppress or nearly eliminate physical aging of nonequilibrium polymer glasses is via the incorporation of well-dispersed nanofillers that undergo attractive interactions with the polymer matrix.
