Properties of PMMA/Carbon nanotubes nanocomposites prepared by “grafting through” method A number of batch polymerizations were performed to study the effect of multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) on the properties of PMMA/MWCNTs nanocomposites. To improve the dispersion of nanotubes in PMMA matrix, MWCNTs were functionalized with methacrylate groups via a four-step modification process and the modified nanoparticles were used to synthesize the nanocomposites. The prepared samples were characterized by Raman spectroscopy, thermogravimetric analysis, dynamic mechanical thermal analysis, differential scanning calorimetry, gel permeation chromatography, UV–visible, and TEM techniques. According to the results, modified nanotubes improved thermal and mechanical properties better than the pristine MWCNTs. The main improvement in the mechanical and thermophysical properties was achieved for the nanocomposite containing 0.5 wt% of MWCNTs. [' Carbon nanotubes (CNTs) have raised much interest during recent years due to their inherent extraordinary electrical and mechanical properties [1]. By introducing small amounts of CNTs, mechanical and electrical properties of composite materials can be improved tremendously [2]. Several processing methods are available for fabricating polymer composites.
 They mainly include solution mixing [3], in situ polymerization [4], and melt blending [5] processes.
 Although inherently different processing routes have been attempted, they all address important issues that affect composite properties, such as exfoliation of CNT bundles and ropes, homogeneous dispersion of individual tubes into the matrix, alignment, and interfacial bonding.
  On the other hand, radical polymerization in the presence of CNTs is going to become one of the most interesting fields of study [6-8]. Monomer type varieties and mild reaction conditions make radical polymerization one the robust methods for preparation of polymer-based nanocomposites [9-12]. CNTs exhibit a different activity in the presence of various polymerization conditions such as the kind of monomer, solvent, or initiator.
 Therefore, different reaction conditions, various types of reactants, and changes in the nanotubes content may result in different thermal, mechanical, and electrical properties of the prepared nanocomposites.
  Clearly, the modification of CNTs enhances dispersion and the resulting properties of nanocomposites [13, 14]. There are mainly two different approaches for the surface modification of CNTs.
 One is the non-covalent functionalization [15-18], which has been carried out by several processes such as ultrasonication, addition of surfactants, polymer wrapping etc.
 The other approach relies on the covalent grafting of functional groups on the side walls of CNTs [19-22]. The covalent functionalization of CNTs was achieved by solvent processing, plasma treatment etc.
 [23-47]. The plasma treatment method is important since it has the advantage of being nonpolluting and can be scaled up to produce large quantities necessary for commercial applications [23, 24]. The available species, radicals, electrons, ions, and UV light within plasma strongly interact with or affect the surfaces of CNTs and thereby breaking the sp2-hybridized graphite-like carbon (C=C) bonds within the CNT lattice and creating active sites for binding functional groups.
 It is rather molecules containing groups that can interact with the plasma-generated surface-bound radicals.
 Furthermore, functional groups are also generated by the plasma treatment itself, i.
e.
, by fragments of process gas/ monomer reacting with the sample surfaces.
 As a result, chemical and physical modifications occur on the surfaces [25-28]. Attachment of small molecules has resulted in significant progress in the application of CNTs [29-32]; however, introduction of macromolecules onto the surface of CNTs seems to be a very promising factor in their compatibility enhancement with polymer matrices [33-35]. In addition to plasma treatment, three main strategies including “grafting to” [36, 37], “grafting from” [38-43], and “grafting-through” [44-47] techniques have been applied to graft polymers onto the surface of nanoparticles.
 “Grafting to” method lies in the attachment of preformed chains like commercial polymers onto the surface of CNTs which were usually functionalized appropriately to react with the functional groups of the polymers.
 The strategy of “grafting from” involves the polymerization of monomers from the surface-derived initiators, chain transfer agents, or catalysts which were covalently attached to the surface of CNTs.
 Although the grafting density in this approach is higher than “grafting to” technique, strict control of the amounts of initiator and substrate as well as accurate control of the reaction conditions is required for the polymerization.
 However, in the recent “grafting through” method, surface of CNTs is functionalized with a polymerizable group.
 Compared to “grafting to” method, graft density is relatively high, but multifunctional monomer-grafted CNTs make cross-linking very likely.
 However, a different method has been applied in this work and polymerizable multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) were synthesized through reaction of a methyl methacrylate-containing silane agent with hydroxylated MWCNTs.
 Therefore, the purpose of this work is to investigate the influence of modified MWCNTs on PMMA-based nanocomposites prepared via free radical polymerization of methyl methacrylate initiated by azobisisobutyronitrile (AIBN) at 60°C.
 To this point, MWCNTs underwent acid treatment to obtain carboxylated MWCNTs (MWCNT–COOHs). Subsequently, MWCNT–OHs were obtained by modification of carboxylated MWCNTs with 1,4-butanediol. Finally, MWCNT–OHs were reacted with 3-methacryloxypropyldimethylchlorosilane to obtain methacrylate-functionalized MWCNTs (MWCNT–MMAs). To prepare nanocomposites, different batch polymerizations were run using pristine MWCNTs and MWCNT–MMAs.
 The synthesized nanocomposites were characterized using Raman spectroscopy, thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), dynamic mechanical thermal analyses (DMTA), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), gas chromatography (GC), gel permeation chromatography (GPC), and TEM methods.
'].
 1) indicates the existence of Si atoms in the structure of MWCNTs.
 This proves the attachment of 3-methacryloxypropyldimethylchlorosilane on the surface of MWCNTs.
 Raman spectroscopy can provide qualitative information on the status of sidewall functionalization, which corresponds to the change of MWCNTs properties [22-28, 40]. Raman spectra for the pristine MWCNTs, MWCNT–MMAs, FMPN0.1 and FMMN0.1 are shown in Fig.
 2. Two peaks around 1,350 cm−1 (D-band) and 1,590 cm−1 (G-band) are shown in the spectra.
 The G-band is an intrinsic feature of CNTs, which is closely related to the vibrations of sp2-bonded carbon atoms in a two-dimensional hexagonal lattice such as a graphitic layer.
 The D-band in graphite represents scattering from a defect which breaks the basic symmetry of the graphene sheet; it is observed in sp2 carbons containing porous, impurities or other symmetry-breaking defects.
 Hence, the value of intensity ratio between the D-band and G-band (ID/IG) serves as a measure of the graphitic disorder; this can indicate that the structure and corresponding properties of MWCNTs are altered [22-28, 48]. According to the results, the value of ID/IG increases from 0.96 for pristine MWCNTs to 1.04 for MWCNT–MMA which shows that functionalization has led to a slight increase in sp3-hybrized carbon atoms of MWCNTs through the covalent attachments of the modifiers.
 In FMPN0.1, the value of ID/IG, due to direct reaction of free radicals with convex surface of pristine MWCNTs, increases to 1.02. The value of ID/IG for FMMN0.1 (1.13) is higher in comparison with MWCNT–MMAs and FMPN0.1. In this case, both the direct reaction of radicals with the surface of MWCNTs and the modification of surface with a four-step process lead to an increase in sp3-hybrized carbon atoms of MWCNTs and raise the value of ID/IG.
 3, pristine MWCNTs exhibit only a slight weight loss (0.82 wt%) at 600°C.
 Therefore, the carbon impurity (such as amorphous carbon) in MWCNTs is negligible [24, 28]. However, MWCNT–MMA displays a weight loss of 5.93 wt% that equals to 348 μmol silane agent per grams of MWCNTs.
 This amount is identical to 4.2 methyl methacrylate groups per 1,000 carbon atom of MWCNTs.
 3). Mass loss differences between 100°C and 600°C by considering mass losses of modifier and pristine MWCNTs are equal to 14.4, 33.6, 23.7, 17.6, and 3.5 wt% for FMPN0.1, FMMN0.1, FMMN0.3, FMMN0.5, and FMMN0.7, respectively.
 Therefore, there is considerable competition between polymerizable groups to react with radicals, which can result in a decrease in the grafting density (Table 2). Also, using pristine MWCNTs in polymerization media results in grafting polymer chains on surface due to the reaction of free radicals with the defects of nanotubes.
 4, TGA technique was also used to study the thermal stability of prepared nanocomposites.
 5). According to the DTGA curves of the samples, three stages of degradation are observed for PMMA/MWCNTs nanocomposites; such a thermal behavior has been observed formerly [50]. Three stages of degradation were also reported by Kashiwagi et al. for PMMA prepared via free radical polymerization.
 They related this phenomenon to head-to-head linkages, unsaturated end groups, and random chain scission [50]. Thus, it can be concluded that three stages of degradation are because of head-to-head linkages, unsaturated end groups, and random chain scission.
 Some thermal properties of nanocomposites are summarized in Table 3. According to the results, random chain scission occurs at temperatures around 360–400°C and increasing MWCNTs content raises degradation temperature.
 Also, the degradation of head-to-head linkages and unsaturated end groups take place in the temperature range of 210–260°C and 280–315°C, respectively.
 Although the thermal properties of nanocomposites are better than the neat PMMA, the thermal stability of FMMN0.7 is lower than FMMN0.5. This is ascribed to the formation of aggregates (bundles) in FMMN0.7 due to higher nanoparticles loading and better dispersion of nanotubes in the FMMN0.5 matrix.
 Figure 5 shows TEM images of nanocomposites containing pristine (FMPN0.1) (A) and methyl methacrylate-functionalized MWCNTs (FMMN0.1) (B). Pristine MWCNTs are extremely flocculated due to strong van der Waals interactions.
 They do not have an appropriate interaction with PMMA matrix and therefore, an appropriate dispersion is not achieved for FMPN0.1 nanocomposite.
 The attachment of different functional groups, ending with PMMA which is grafted through polymerization, has caused the MWCNTs to disperse well in FMMN0.1.  DMTA are used to study dynamic mechanical properties.
 Figure 6 shows the variation of storage modulus (E′) and tan δ versus temperature for PMMA/MWCNTs nanocomposites.
 In addition, some detailed properties are summarized in Table 4. According to the results, storage modulus for all the nanocomposites are higher in comparison with PMMA, while E′ of the samples having 0.5 wt% MWCNT–MMA is higher than that of the samples containing 0.7 wt% MWCNT–MMA.
 At 0.7 wt% loading of nanoparticles, the agglomeration occurs and polymer and filler interactions are weakened; i.
, the polymer and filler interactions at 0.5 wt% MWCNT content favor a better dispersion.
 Table 4 shows E′ for the rubbery region where the situation is the same as glassy region.
 In 0.1 wt% loading of nanotubes, the E′ values of modified MWCNTs are higher than that of pristine MWCNTs, which is resulted from a better nanoparticles dispersion due to surface modification.
 Table 4 shows Tg values as the temperature at which the maximum values of tan δ are reached.
 The results show that the highest Tg value is obtained for 0.5 wt% MWCNTs content while Tg of FMMN0.1 is higher than that of FMPN0.1. In addition, the modification of nanoparticles leads to higher Tg values.
 6 and Table 4. The decreasing PMMA concentration is reflected in the lower tan δ heights.
 In addition, the DSC results for Tg values support those from DMTA (see Table 4). In fact, because of the measurement of extrinsic mechanical properties rather than intrinsic heat capacity and the poorer temperature control of the instrument, DMTA produces higher Tg values as compared with the DSC results.
 7 and Table 5). The results show that the introduction of MWCNTs into the polymerization media results in a decrease in monomer conversion.
 Park et al. [38] showed that these radicals remain active and take part in radical polymerization of methyl methacrylate.
 In such systems, surface treatment causes higher system stability which is an important parameter in increasing polymerization rate [51, 52]. It is clear that increasing the organic moieties on the surface of MWCNTs leads to more stable systems.
 Therefore, monomer conversion in FMMN0.1 is higher than that in FMPN0.1. Table 5 shows the loading effect of MWCNT–MMAs on monomer conversion.
 On the other hand, a decrease in molecular weight at loading of 0.7 wt% could be ascribed to the reduction of system stability due to the formation of aggregates.
 Moreover, compared with FMMN0.5, Mn of FMMN0.7 decreases, which can be attributed to the formation of 3D network composed of nanoparticles covalently bonded together.
 This 3D network reduces the mobility of free radicals and causes a decrease in molecular weight.
 Finally, increasing loading of MWCNT–MMAs up to 0.5 wt% results in lower PDI values, while PDI rises considerably in FMMN0.7. The modification of MWCNTs with 3-methacryloxypropyldimethylchlorosilane results in methyl methacrylate-modified carbon nanotubes.
 7 and Table 5). For the attached chains, increasing MWCNT–MMAs content decreases molecular weight due to a drop in the ratio of [MMA]/[radicals on surface]. Also, PDI increases by increasing nanoparticles content.
 Figure 8 shows the UV–vis absorption spectra of pristine MWCNTs, MWCNT–MMAs, and PMMA-grafted MWCNTs (FMMN0.1) in CHCl3 at room temperature.
 The absorbance of MWCNT–PMMA in CHCl3 is significantly greater than that of the pristine MWCNTs and MWCNT–MMAs.
 9.'].
