Effect of High Aspect Ratio Filler on Dielectric Properties of Polymer Composites: A Study on Barium Titanate Fibers and Graphene PlateletsHigh aspect ratio fillers are predicted to increase the dielectric constant of polymer composites more efficiently than spherical fillers according to the rule of mixtures. Using high aspect ratio fillers is a promising route for creating high dielectric constant, low loss materials at a low filler volume fraction, for use as capacitor and electric field grading materials. In this work, two high aspect ratio fillers were mixed into a polymer matrix, and the dielectric properties of composites were studied. Barium titanate fibers were synthesized by electrospinning a sol-gel, followed by a heat treatment to obtain a perovskite crystal structure. The heat treatment conditions were found to be crucial for obtaining tetragonal barium titanate fibers with high dielectric constant. Graphene platelets were prepared by a thermal shock method, which was found to result in a larger dielectric constant. A combination of barium titanate and graphene platelets yielded the highest dielectric constant when used in a polydimethyl siloxane matrix. The increase in dielectric loss over the pure matrix was small when the volume fraction was below the percolation threshold of graphene platelets. Electric flux density-electric field (D-E) measurements showed a linear dielectric constant in barium titanate filled composites and higher loss when graphene was added. The ac breakdown strength was reduced compared to the neat polymer and was affected by filler aspect ratio. The mechanisms that lead to the observed phenomena are discussed. Index Terms — Dielectric materials, dielectric breakdown, silicone rubber, permittivity ['FERROELECTRIC ceramic particles are widely used to increase the dielectric constant of polymer composites because of their high dielectric constant and low dielectric loss [1, 2]. However, the ability of spherical particles to increase the dielectric constant is small at low volume fractions according to the rule of mixtures [3]. Higher volume fractions lead to increased dielectric constant, but also to a reduction in electrical breakdown strength and mechanical properties [4-7]. Composites with high aspect ratio (AR) fillers are predicted to exhibit higher dielectric constant at lower loading [3], thereby potentially maintaining the mechanical properties and dielectric breakdown strength [5]. High aspect ratio fillers, however, have not been studied as extensively as their spherical counterparts because of challenges in manufacturing high aspect ratio ferroelectric fillers [8, 9]. Electrospinning can afford barium titanate fibers with heat treatment [10-12]. The dielectric properties of these barium titanate fibers have, however, not been investigated.
 In order to create high dielectric constant BaTiO3, the tetragonal phase must be formed, which typically occurs at grain sizes larger than 100 nm [13-15]. In this work, a procedure to synthesize high dielectric constant tetragonal BaTiO3 fibers with large grain size is presented.
 The dielectric properties of a polymer composite containing these BaTiO3 fibers are investigated and discussed.
 By comparing the data with the theoretical prediction from the Maxwell Garnett rule of mixtures, the validity of the model to describe real composites can be illustrated.
 Also, the effect of filler aspect ratio on the electrical breakdown strength is investigated and can be instructive for applications.
 The alternative approach is to use conductive particles at a volume fraction close to the percolation threshold [16]. In this work, graphene platelet (GPL) was used to study the effect of high aspect ratio conductive fillers.
 Its plate like structure and high aspect ratio can lead to a very low percolation threshold.
 The dielectric behavior of three-phasecomposites with both fillers was also studied at both low and high field strength.
 '].
['##3.1 SINTERING EFFECT ON THE CRYSTAL STRUCTURE OF BARIUM TITANATE FIBERS The goal of the heat treatment is to obtain tetragonal phase BaTiO3 because it has a higher dielectric constant than cubic phase BaTiO3, and the grain size has a major influence on the crystal structure [15, 17, 18]. The grain size of the BaTiO3 fibers is affected by the heating rate.
 Figure 2a shows XRD patterns that illustrate the effect of calcination temperature on the crystal structure of the BaTiO3 fibers.
 After calcination at a temperature above 800 °C, the XRD pattern is consistent with the XRD data of BaTiO3 in the literature [11]. Above 1000 °C, the impurity phase (mainly BaCO3) [12] was removed as indicated by the absence of peaks below 2θ = 30°. The influence of the heating rate on the BaTiO3 crystal structure is shown in Figure 2b.
 A low heating rate (10 °C/min) resulted in a symmetric (200) peak confirming cubic symmetry.
 The cubic crystal structure is facilitated by the smaller grain size (see Figure 3b and 3c) [14]. The low heating rate inhibited the diffusion process during crystal formation, resulting in small grains with pores between them (Figure 3c). At a heating rate of 200 °C/min the asymmetric peak shape indicates the appearance of the tetragonal crystal phase, as evidenced by a (002) peak, although the cubic phase is still dominant.
 A very fast heating rate (larger than 2000 °C/min) resulted in larger grains, as shown in Figure 3a, as a result of the fast crystal growth rate compared to the nucleation rate.
 It resulted in complete splitting of the (200) and (002) peaks, which indicates that most of the crystals are tetragonal phase as shown in Figure 2b.
 This increase in grain size was mitigated when an annealing temperature higher than 500 °C was used prior to the calcinations due to the initiation of nucleation during the annealing process.
 The adhesion between the fibers and the silicone rubber matrix was good as shown in Figure 3d which is an image from a fracture surface.
 To optimize the formation of the high dielectric constant tetragonal phase while maintaining the fiber morphology, a rapid heating rate (larger than 2000 °C/min) in combination with a short calcination step (5 min at 1200 °C) was required.
 After the heat treatment, a polycrystalline bamboo-like structure was obtained as shown in Figure 3a.
 There is likely still some low dielectric constant cubic phase at the grain boundaries and surfaces due to a lack of constraint compared to the “ferroelectric core” in the bulk [14, 19], though the quantity is too small to be observed from the XRD data.
 ##3.2 DIELECTRIC SEPCTROSCOPY OF COMPOSITES FILLED WITH BARIUM TITANATE FIBERS Dielectric spectroscopy (Figure 4a) shows an increased dielectric constant for the composites.
 The dielectric constant increased from 3 to 6.5 for the composites filled with 20 vol% of the lowest aspect ratio fibers (AR=3). The relative dielectric constant increase over the neat polymer is comparable to that of composites filled with spherical or irregular BaTiO3 particles reported in the literature [4-6]. Meanwhile, the high aspect ratio fiber (AR=15) leads to a significant increase in the composite relative dielectric constant to 12. The loss factor of all the tested composites is below 0.006, only an order of magnitude higher than that of the neat polymer.
 In the literature, 20 vol% of BaTiO3 particles usually double the dielectric constant of pure polymer, which is similar to the effect of the lowest aspect ratio fiber in this work [4, 5, 20, 21]. The dielectric constant of composites with randomly orientated ellipsoidal fillers can be described by the Maxwell- Garnett expression [3]  Where εeff is the dielectric constant of the composite, εi and εe are the dielectric constants of the filler and matrix respectively, f is the filler volume fraction and Nf is the depolarization factor of ellipsoids in the x, y and z direction.
 In the literature the reported dielectric constant of BaTiO3 ranges from 1000 to 5000 [15, 18] when the grain size is larger than 200 nm.
 Although the actual dielectric constant of the BaTiO3 fiber is unknown, the change in composite dielectric constant is very small when the filler dielectric constant increases from 1000 to 5000 according to equation (1). For example, when changing the filler dielectric constant from 1000 to 5000, the composite dielectric constant increases from 5.39 to 5.47 in a 10 vol% composites with a filler AR of 5. A dielectric constant of 1000 is assumed for BaTiO3 fibers in the fitting using equation (1), and a comparison between the experimental data and fitting is shown in Figure 4b.
 The fitting gives effective ARs of 3, 5, and 8 for the fibers that have measured ARs of 3, 6, and 15, respectively.
 ##3.3 DIELECTRIC CONSTANT OF COMPOSITES FILLED WITH GRAPHENE PLATELETS The dielectric constant and dissipation factor of composites filled with GPLs are shown in Figure 5. Both the dielectric constant and dissipation factor exhibit a large increase at a small volume fraction of GPLs.
 The sheet morphology and high aspect ratio of GPLs lead to a low percolation threshold of less than 0.01 in volume fraction.
 The high dielectric constant can be explained by percolation theory [22], which describes the critical behavior of composites when the volume fraction of conductive fillers approaches the percolation threshold.
 High aspect ratio conductive fillers such as carbon nanotubes [23] and carbon fibers [24] have been used to prepare high dielectric constant composites.
 The rule of mixtures predicts that 2-dimensional GPLs will increase the dielectric constant at even a lower volume fraction due to their sheet structure and high aspect ratio.
 The dielectric properties of graphene-filled composites were not reported until recently [25]. In our work, the GPLs prepared by the thermal shock method have a smaller thickness, and thus the percolation was reached at a lower volume fraction.
 ##3.4 DIELECTRIC SPECTROSCOPY OF COMPOSITES FILLED WITH BOTH FILLERS A GPL volume fraction of 0.0043 was chosen for the threephase composite with both fillers.
 The dielectric spectroscopy of several representative composites is shown in Figure 6. The slope in the loss factor is small indicating little contribution from the conduction current.
 7. By adding 0.43 vol% of GPLs into the BaTiO3 fiber/PDMS composites, the dielectric constant was further increased to 13.7 and 18.6 for 10 vol% and 20 vol% BaTiO3 fiber composites respectively.
 6b.
 Adding 0.43 vol% of GPLs into the BaTiO3 fiber composites results in an increased dissipation factor that is, however, not higher than the pure GPL/PDMS composites.
 In the three-phase composites reported in the literature [24, 26, 27], a combination of conductive fillers and high dielectric constant ceramic fillers is generally used.
 ##3.5 D-E MEASUREMENT The high voltage behavior of materials was investigated through D-E measurements.
 Both BaTiO3 fiber composites and three-phase composites were tested under several field conditions below the breakdown strength of materials.
 Figure 8 shows the results for each composite under the highest measured field.
 The relative permittivity was calculated using an approach found in the literature [28]. The real dielectric constant for composites is listed in Table 1. From the literature, ferroelectric ceramics such as barium titanate usually exhibit a nonlinear dielectric constant.
 Depending on the microstructure and crystal morphology, the dielectric constant of barium titanate can either increase [29] or decrease [30] with increasing field strength.
 The large dielectric constant of BaTiO3 fibers leads to a field concentration in the polymer phase and reduced electric field in the ceramics.
 When the field in the ceramics is less than the “threshold field” [29], a linear dielectric constant is expected.
 The three-phase composite also has a larger loop area, compared to the BaTiO3 composite.
  ##3.6 AC BREAKDOWN STRENGTH The ac breakdown strength of both BaTiO3 fiber/PDMS composite and GPL/PDMS composite is shown in Figure 9. For the fiber composites, it decreases with increasing fiber volume fraction and fiber aspect ratio.
 The breakdown strength of GPL composite is even lower than the lowest of the BaTiO3 fiber composites.
 At higher filler volume fraction, the electrical stress concentration is more severe and the probability of finding an enhanced local field is larger in the polymer matrix [31]. So the breakdown strength also reduces with increasing filler volume fraction.
 The breakdown strength of the GPL composite is lower than all the BaTiO3 fiber composites, which can also be attributed to the higher aspect ratio and conductivity of GPLs and their sheet morphology.
 Note that the volume fraction of the tested GPL composite is below the percolation threshold, which should not raise the tendency for thermal runaway compared to the BaTiO3 fiber composites.
