Synthesis and dielectric properties of novel high-K polymer composites containing in-situ formed silver nanoparticles for embedded capacitor applicationsDielectric properties of in-situ formed silver (Ag) incorporated carbon black (CB)/polymer composites were studied. In-situ formed Ag nanoparticles in the Ag/CB/epoxy composites increased the dielectric constant (K) value and decreased the dissipation factor (Df). The remarkably increased dielectric constant of the nanocomposite is due to the piling of charges at the extended interface of the interfacial polarization-based composites. The reduced dielectric loss might be due to the Coulomb blockade effect of the contained Ag nanoparticles, the well-known quantum effect of metal nanoparticles. The size, size distribution and loading level of metal nanoparticles in the nanocomposite were found to have significant influences on the dielectric properties of the nanocomposite system. ['The ever increasing speed, functionality and portability requirements for microelectronic products exert tremendous interest and pressure for researchers and manufacturers to meet the growing demand for miniaturization and high-speed performance.
 In a typical microelectronic product, about 80% of the electronic components are passive components which are unable to add gain or perform switching functions in circuit performance, but these components occupy over 40% of the printed circuit/wiring board (PCB/PWB) surface area.
 Therefore, embedding these discrete passive components into the substrate board has become a primary method to further miniaturize electronic systems and enable significant improvement of the electrical performance.
 Furthermore, it enhances the reliability of electronic systems by eliminating the solder joints which are required for discrete components assembly.
1–3  Novel materials for embedded passive applications are in great and urgent demand, for which high K, low dielectric loss and process compatibility with the PCBs are the most important prerequisites.
 Polymer composites provide an ideal solution to combine the dielectric or electrical properties of the ceramic or metal fillers and the low-temperature (<250 °C) processability and mechanical properties of the polymer matrix.
4–10 For conductor–insulator composite percolative systems with dramatic increase of K close to the percolation threshold, besides the well reported metal/polymer composites,7–10 the carbon black (CB)/epoxy composite has also been considered as a candidate material for embedded capacitors due to its ultra-high dielectric constant (K).11 With a proper filler loading level and good dispersion, high K over 1000 can be easily obtained.
 For example, for a highly conductive carbon black, a high K over 13[thin space (1/6-em)]000 (at 10 kHz) was observed, and for a relatively low conductivity carbon black, a dielectric constant of about 2[thin space (1/6-em)]300 (at 10 kHz) was achieved.
11 Since the carbon black filler loading required to reach high K is much lower than that of ceramic/polymer composites, higher adhesion of carbon black composites to the substrates compared to that of the ceramic composites can be obtained.
 Although CB/polymer composites can give extremely high K, the dissipation factor (Df) of carbon black composites is also very high, which implies the high dielectric loss of the system.
 So the high dielectric loss is one key issue of this system that needs to be addressed for the decoupling capacitor applications.
  Materials based on nano-sized metals provide a potential solution to meet present and future technological demand in virtue of the novel properties (plasmon absorption, superparamagnetism, Coulomb blockade etc.
) and unique property combinations of metal nanoparticles.
12 The Coulomb blockade effect is one of the well-known quantum effects of metal nanoparticles.
 If the size of the metal nanoparticle or so-called “Coulomb island” is small, the tunneling electron creates an additional barrier due to the charging energy e2/2C (where e is the electron charge unit, and C is the capacitance of the metal island) to the further transfer of electrons.
 When the charging energy exceeds the thermal fluctuation energy kBT (where kB is the Boltzman constant, and T is the absolute temperature), the Coulomb blockade will occur, which inhibits the charge transfer through the small island below a certain voltage threshold and leads to an increase in resistance.
13–15 Feng et al. studied the dielectric properties of Ag/PVA nanocomposites and found that the composite with 20–30 nm Ag particles has a higher resistivity and breakdown voltage than its matrix.
15 Ideally, due to the Coulomb blockade effect, metal nanoparticles in a polymer matrix may reduce the electron tunneling and increase the resistivity of composites.
 Thus the conduction loss of the dielectric system might be mitigated to some extent.
 Tang et al. reported the effect of dispersed Ag nanoparticles on the dielectric properties of Ag/PbTiO3 composite films and found that the dielectric constant of the films increases and the dissipation factor of the films decreases with the addition of Ag nanoparticles into PbTiO3 films at some loading level of Ag, but no mechanism was provided.
16  On the other hand, uniform dispersion of nanoparticles in the nanocomposites is required because clumps of particles inside the polymer matrix will not lead to desirable electrical or dielectric properties.
 However, uniformly dispersed ultrafine particles in a polymer matrix may not be easily achieved by incorporating pre-made nano-size particles into a polymer due to the easy agglomeration of nanoparticles and high viscosity of polymers, while the in-situ formation of metal nanoparticles in a polymer matrix could facilitate a more uniform dispersion of nanoparticles in polymers.
8,12,17,18 Moreover, the much smaller particle sizes obtained by in-situ reduction compared with commercially available micron or nano-size Ag particles can help achieve thinner dielectric films leading to a higher capacitance density, and also more evident Coulomb blockade effects.
14  In this paper, the in-situ formed Ag nanoparticles in a neat epoxy resin and Ag/CB/epoxy nanocomposites based on as-synsthesized Ag/epoxy nanocomposite and CB/epoxy composite were investigated.
 The in-situ formed nanoparticles in the epoxy resins were characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and the nanocomposites were studied by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD) and thermogravimetric analysis (TGA). In addition, the dielectric properties of the nanocomposites filled with the in-situ formed Ag nanoparticles are discussed and correlated with the structure and morphology of the composites.
 The size, size distribution and loading level of metal nanoparticles in the nanocomposites were found to have significant influences on the dielectric properties of the nanocomposite system.
 '].
 1 shows the TEM micrographs of the in-situ formed nano Ag/epoxy mixture in the presence of a capping agent (CA) with different ratios to Ag precursor (R denotes [CA]/[AgNO3] ratio, i.
 the ratio of the capping agent to AgNO3). Nanoparticles of roughly two size ranges formed in all mixtures while the mixtures with higher concentrations of the capping agent showed the narrower size distribution.
 In the case of R = 1 and 0.6 (see Fig.
 1a and b), Ag nanoparticles of 1–3 nm were well-dispersed, and the agglomerates of the small particles formed larger clusters of sizes ranging from 6 to 8 nm.
 On the other hand, both small and large particles of 1–3 nm and 30–45 nm size, respectively, were observed in the same samples with R = 0.4 and 0.2 (see Fig.
 1c and d). The average sizes of large particles were determined from the histogram to be 7.0 nm, 7.4 nm, 36.3 nm and 37.0 nm for samples with R values of 1, 0.6, 0.4 and 0.2, respectively.
  ##Effect of curing and processing procedure The curing conditions for Ag/epoxy and Ag/CB/epoxy composites were set to be 100 °C for 0.5 h and 125 °C for 1 h.
 2 showed that the nanoparticles of ultrafine size were embedded in the polymer matrix.
 SEM images of cured Ag/epoxy nanocomposite for 16.08K magnification and the inset for 41.85K magnification.
 3. The XRD spectrum of the Ag/epoxy composite showed four well defined strong peaks at 2θ = 38.4, 44.3, 64.7 and 77.6°, corresponding to the (111), (200), (220) and (311) planes of the face-centered cubic (fcc) Ag phase (JCPDS No.
 4-0783), respectively.
 By using the Scherrer equation, the average size of the Ag nanoparticles of the Ag/epoxy composite with R = 0.6 was estimated to be 11 nm.
 The average size of the Ag nanoparticles of the Ag/CB/epoxy composite with R = 0.6 was estimated to be 13 nm.
 4 displays the TGA curves of neat epoxy, Ag/epoxy mixture, CB/epoxy mixture and Ag/CB/epoxy mixture all in the uncured state initially.
 To estimate the compositions of the Ag/CB/epoxy mixtures, an isothermal and dynamic combined procedure was set as heating at 100 °C for 15 min and at 125 °C for 1 h and ramping over the whole temperature range at 5 °C min−1. The two weight loss regions at 100 °C and 125 °C are due to the volatilization of the hardener for all mixtures and volatilization/decomposition of various chemicals including the solvent residue, the capping agent and benzoquinone resulting from the oxidation of hydroquinone for the Ag/epoxy mixture and the Ag/CB/epoxy mixture.
 It can be seen that the neat epoxy resin was almost degraded above 450 °C.
 The residue in the CB/epoxy composite at 600 °C was attributed to carbon black which accounts for 29.57 wt%. The residues in the Ag/CB/epoxy composite at 600 °C can be attributed to Ag and CB and this was used to estimate the content of Ag and CB in the Ag/CB/epoxy nanocomposites.
 5 shows the dielectric constants and dissipation factors of Ag/CB/epoxy composites with different loading levels of Ag nanoparticles at 10 kHz.
 The sample with 3.7 wt% Ag showed a K of 2259 while the Df was maintained at around 0.45, which is much lower than the sample without Ag nanoparticles (K: 1600, Df: 0.7). The remarkable increase of K may be due to the piling of charges at the extended interface and/or more conducting particles based on the percolation theory.
 6 indicates that K and Df values of Ag/CB/epoxy composites with Ag nanoparticles of different size and size distribution varied considerably.
 For Ag/CB/epoxy composites containing 4.2 wt% Ag and 19.6 wt% CB (marked as 4.2Ag/19.6CB), compared with the control sample (∼20 wt% CB only, without Ag nanoparticles), increased K (see Fig.
 6(a1)) and decreased Df (see Fig.
 6(a2)) were observed for samples in which average sizes of large Ag nanoparticles are 7.0 nm and 7.4 nm, while the Df values for samples in which the average size of large Ag nanoparticles are 36.3 nm and 37.0 nm increased.
 For Ag/CB/composites containing 6.2 wt% Ag and 14.6 wt% CB (marked as 6.2Ag/14.6CB) shown in Fig.
 6(b2), no decreased Df is observed even for samples with better dispersion and narrower size distribution.
 7 illustrates the dielectric properties of the nanocomposites measured at different frequencies.
 7a), while the decreased Df for nanocomposites containing Ag nanoparticles is observed in the low frequency range (10 kHz and 100 kHz in Fig.
 7b) only.
 This might be explained as the fact that the conduction loss, which is related to the dc electrical conductivity of the materials, contributes to the whole Df value less significantly as the frequency increases (see eqn (1))  where ε′, ε″, σ are the real and imaginary part of the dielectric permittivity and the electrical conductivity of the materials, respectively, and f is the frequency.
 Accordingly, the Df values of nanocomposites containing Ag nanoparticles are higher than that without Ag nanoparticles at higher frequencies (1 MHz and 10 MHz in Fig.
 7b). Effect of size of Ag nanoparticles on (a) K and (b) Df values of 4.2Ag/19.6CB/epoxy composites at different frequencies.
