The Use of Electron Paramagnetic Resonance in the Probing of the Nano-Dielectric InterfaceElectron Paramagnetic Resonance (EPR) has been used to study the properties of trapped electrons or holes in XLPE and in 12.5% vinylsilane-treated SiO2 nanoparticles in XLPE specimens. Both electrically unstressed and electrically stressed (up to 25 kV/mm) specimens were used. The EPR spectra of both materials indicated that the acceptors/donors were oxygen radicals in the polymer, probably originating during the cross-linking. It was found that the anisotropic oxygen environments were not randomly oriented, but were textured, presumably during the fabrication of the sheet specimens. It was found that under the action of an applied electric field, the population of an additional number of oxygen radicals occurred. This result is discussed in relation to the implied polymer structure and conductivity mechanisms. Index Terms — Electron paramagnetic resonance, nanocomposite, interface, polyethylene. ['ELECTRON transport in polymer dielectrics may take place by electrons moving between traps or localized states.
 The term impurity conduction, used here, denotes the tunneling or hopping of electrons from filled donors to empty acceptors without thermal ionization into the conduction band.
 Despite the recognition that impurity conduction is important in polymer insulator dielectrics, and extensive literature discussion of the trapping of charge in localized traps, the actual donor and acceptor trap sites have eluded direct spectral and structural identification.
 For example, in the case of thermally stimulated currents, the estimation of the trap site activation energy is deduced from the results, but the actual nature of the trap site is not.
 One method for probing these electrically active sites is by using electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR). In this technique, the magnetic field on the sample, placed in an Xband microwave cavity, is increased until the energy difference between the spin-up and spin-down orientations, which are also affected by the local environment, match the microwave frequency of the instrument.
 Strong absorption is then detected.
 In the simplest case of spin only, a very sharp peak and trough line would be observed.
 The data in this paper follows the conventional practice of measuring the derivative of the absorption curve, thus giving a peak-and-trough output.
 The maximum absorption thus corresponds to the zero crossing midway between the peak and trough for a symmetric absorption curve.
 On the scale of the figures used here, the peak and trough (only a few mT wide) would not be resolved.
 Fortunately, in the cases studied here, the relevant signals arise from oxygen radicals in a distribution of orthorhombic environments.
 The EPR parameters (g-values and lineshape) depend on the details of the chemical bonding.
 A random orientation of such a set gives rise to a very broad (25 – 50 mT) asymmetrical peak.
 In this work, two low field maxima and a high field minimum on the magnetic field axis serve to characterize the defects.
 Much structural information can be extracted by an analysis of the details of the absorption line.
 The SiO2/XLPE polymer nano-composite used in this work has previously [1] been shown to be rich in oxygen radicals.
 It is important to note that: ● there can be several different structural types of oxygen radical species present, ● each type of oxygen radical species is associated with a unique donor or acceptor energy, and ● there were no organic radicals, or defects, that could be detected that are associated with the carbon atoms of the organic polymer itself.
 Previous work [1] on identifying qualitatively and quantitatively the acceptor and donor traps around the nanoparticles strongly suggests that the Gouy-Chapman layer so often invoked in discussion [2], may, in fact, involve these oxygen and organic radicals.
 The important issue is whether the moieties may be involved not only as ions, but also as acceptor and donor states responsible for impurity conduction as defined above.
 In the first case, electric charge motion is accompanied by mass transport, as the ion and charge move together.
 In the second case, charge motion is not accompanied by mass transport, as the one or more in-between oxygen radical ions act as stepping stones for electron hopping to the final destination, the last oxygen ion in the given active path.
 To prove this conclusively requires that the filled donor and empty acceptor concentration changes induced by the electric field be monitored.
 This implies that in situ measurements are required.
 Consider a simple idealized model shown below of 5 oxygen radicals.
 O(.) – O(.) – O(.) – O(.) – O(.) Here the (.) represents an unpaired (EPR active) electron spin on the oxygen.
 The EPR spectrum of this structure would have a relative amplitude of 5. On polarization the electron arrangement might be: O( ) – O(.) – O(.) – O(.) – O(..) now having a relative amplitude of 3. On the other hand, the initial state may be the lower configuration, and the electric field induced polarization would result in an increase in amplitude from 3 to 5. Such predicted changes in EPR intensity on polarization, or additionally, changes in shape due to population changes in the different oxygen environments, are more general than the very specific model used above might imply.
'].
['A typical EPR spectrum is shown in Figure 3. The orientation of the applied magnetic field here is such that it would be parallel to the electric field, that is E ║H.
 In this case E = 0; no electric field was present.
 The oxygen radical derivative spectrum shows a broad absorption at magnetic fields on the low side of the g = 2.00 value.
 At fields very close to the g = 2.00 magnetic field, the derivative spectrum rapidly decreases, becoming quite negative before rising to zero (out of range in this plot on the high field side). Quantitatively, the above characteristics may be theoretically stated: the different dimensions of the oxygen ligand environment split the different bonding energies of the oxygen by different amounts.
 In consequence the EPR response is now characterized by three principle g-values of the g tensor, such that gxx < gyy < gzz ~ 2.0 On the basis of these assumptions it has been possible to computer simulate the different observed spectra in the starting silica powder.
 In Figure 3, gxx corresponds to the maximum at ~0.24 T, with experimental value 2.90, gyy to the maximum at ~0.26 T, with experimental value 2.69, and gzz to the minimum at ~0.345 T, corresponding to the experimental value 2.03. The effects of texture may be seen by comparison of Figure 3 with Figures 4a, 4b, and 4c.
 The composition of the polymer used to obtain these results was the same in both cases, namely 12.5% SiO2 /XLPE.
 In Figure 3 the orientation is E ║ H.
 In Figure 4a, however the specimen has been rotated by the angle, α = 22° around the z-axis.
 In Figures 4b and 4c the rotations were 45° and 90° respectively.
 In Figure 3 the orientation is E ║ H, while in Figure 4c the specimen orientation is rotated by 90°, so now H ┴ E.
 The magnitude of the EPR signals in pure and 12.5% oxide loaded cross-linked polyethylene is comparable.
 These defects should be detectable by EPR with much greater sensitivity than the oxygen radicals, since the intrinsic line widths are much narrower, (~ 0.3 to 0.4 mT wide) compared to the oxygen spectra (~ 10 mT wide). On the other hand, the contortions of the polymer chains may so distribute the hyperfine lines from otherwise recognizable identical chain moieties that the hyperfine lines are not detected.
 Rosiello et al [5] have shown thermally induced cross-linking in LDPE with low concentration of peroxide, together with alkenyl aromatic hydrocarbon cross-linking agents which involve hydrogen abstraction from the polymer chain to form unsaturated bonds which couple the chains.
 1,3- diisopropenylbenzene) were observed.
 A related study of X-irradiated HDPE (preparation parameters not specified) by Durant et al [6], revealed by EPR the presence of allyl, alkyl, and peroxyl radicals.
 However, most interestingly, the work by Hirai et al [7] finds space charge accumulation correlates with the presence of several by-products of the DCP in XLPE.
 ##3.1 CHARGE INJECTION AND TRANSPORT ###3.1.1 XLPE To study the effect of electric field induced charge motion or charge injection, a static d.
 Figure 5 shows the EPR spectrum of the unstressed specimen.
 Very little, if any, change in the spectrum took place as the field was increased in steps to 28.12 kVmm-1, as can be seen in Figure 6 taken at this stress.
 At the next step, at a field of 31.25 kVmm-1, a significant change in the spectrum was observed, as shown in Figure 7. As can be seen, a structure similar to hyperfine lines is observed on the low field side of g = 2.0. Overall, the spectrum has now incurred a “choppy” appearance.
 Despite serious effort on this and other similar events on other specimens, a central mirror field at g = 2.00 (i.
 ###3.1.2 12.5% VINYLSILANE- TREATED SiO2 IN XLPE In this series of experiments on the SiO2/XLPE nanodielectric composite material, the applied electric field was ramped in steps as before.
 The EPR spectrum of the unstressed sample is shown in Figure 8. Increasing the electric field to 15.75 kVmm-1 resulted in the jagged feature, as can be seen in Figure 9. In this case, the jagged feature occurs on the high field side of the g = 2.00 field value, in contrast to the behavior seen in Figure 7. Finally, the EPR spectrum at the highest electrical stress reached in this series, namely 26.31 kVmm-1, is shown in Figure 10. Figure 10 particularly shows the development of distinct shoulders at 0.23 and 0.37 T.
 The spectral changes of the 12.5% loaded nanomaterial also indicate a clear threshold as a function of applied electric field.
 Below about 16 kVmm-1 the EPR spectra behave in a similar way compared to the pure XLPE, namely only subtle changes if any.
 ##3.2 SUMMARY OF EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS The EPR results have resulted in several major experimental conclusions.
 These are presumably introduced by the cross-linking agent, dicumyl peroxide, during polymer cross-linking, and ● Measurable changes in the occupancy of some of these donor/acceptor sites, at high applied electric fields, establish that they play a role in transport and trapping of charge, and ● The occupancy changes in pure XLPE, at these high electric fields, is significantly different from those in the 12.5% SiO2/XLPE nanocomposite under similar conditions.
 This implies the SiO2 particles have significantly altered some important parameter(s) of conduction.
 These conclusions may be reinforced by plotting the difference between the EPR spectrum at the highest experimental electrical stress and at zero electrical stress for the two material types in Figures 11 and 12. The data plotted in these two graphs are simply the differences between the raw the same at each of the two respective end-points, and none were changed during the course of measurement, except for the value of the applied voltage.
 Comparison between Figures 11 and 12 and, taking a very conservative viewpoint, strongly suggests that the electric field has indeed injected charge into the nanomaterial. Figure 12 is essentially the resulting EPR spectrum from this injected charge.
 This charge is localized on oxygen radical sites characterized (broadly) by gxx = 2.5 (B = .25T), gyy = 2.3 (B = .31T), and gzz = 2.0 (B = .34T) '].
