Dielectric Breakdown Strength of Epoxy Bimodal-polymer-Brush-Grafted Core Functionalized Silica NanocompositesThe central goal of dielectric nanocomposite design is to create a large interfacial area between the matrix polymer and nanofillers and to use it to tailor the properties of the composite. The interface can create sites for trapping electrons leading to increased dielectric breakdown strength (DBS). Nanoparticles with a bimodal population of covalently anchored molecules were created using ligand engineering. Electrically active short molecules (oligothiophene or ferrocene) and matrix compatible long poly(glycidyl methacrylate) (PGMA) chains comprise the bimodal brush. The dielectric breakdown strength was evaluated from recessed samples and dielectric spectroscopy was used to study the dielectric constant and loss as a function of frequency. The dielectric breakdown strength and permittivity increased considerably with only 2 wt% filler loading while the dielectric loss remained comparable to the reference epoxy. Index Terms – Nanotechnology, epoxy resins, nonhomogeneous media, dielectric materials. ['NANODIELECTRICS, or dielectric polymer nanocomposites, can exhibit significant improvements in endurance strength and dielectric breakdown strength compared to the unfilled polymer [1-4]. There are experimental results suggesting that in addition to controlling the dispersion of particles, controlling the relative polar or nonpolar nature of the particle surface will allow for property optimization [5]. In addition, directly bonding the particle to the polymer matrix has been shown to prevent conductive percolation across particle surfaces resulting in reduced interfacial polarization within the composite and increased dielectric breakdown strength [6]. Furthermore, significant reduction in leakage currents and dielectric losses and improvement in dielectric breakdown strengths have resulted when phenyl rings with electron-withdrawing functional groups were grafted to the particle surface [7]. While it is clear that the nanofiller/matrix interface is critical in controlling the dielectric properties, the mechanisms leading to these properties are not fully understood.
 This lack of understanding limits our ability to optimize the dielectric response.
 Therefore, in order to realize the promise of polymer nanodielectrics and create insulating materials that reach into a new property space, a more fundamental understanding of the role of the nanoparticle interface in controlling properties is needed.
 Although the large interfacial area is a key component in improving the breakdown strength, it also presents a challenge: nanoscale fillers tend to agglomerate, reducing the impact of the filler.
 A brush of polymer chains tethered to the filler particles can be used to overcome this challenge.
 By using matrix compatible polymer brushes the particles can be compatibilized with the matrix [8,9] and dispersed, retaining their surface-to-volume ratio.
 Especially beneficial is a bimodal brush geometry: one population of high graft density short functional molecules and the other of low graft density long matrix compatible chains.
 This design allows particles to disperse even if the short brush is incompatible with the matrix [10]. There are two methods for producing these brushes: the “grafting to" approach where chains are polymerized and subsequently attached to the surface [11], and a “grafting from" approach, during which polymerization takes place from a site on the surface of the particle.
 The latter has the advantage of achieving high graft densities because steric hindrance does not inhibit the attachment of additional chains.
 The “grafting to” approach however, is quick and easy to scale up and provides more flexibility in the chemistry of the attached molecule.
 “Grafting to” lacks control over graft density [12] but good dispersion of particles has been observed using this approach [13] and a parametric phase diagram has been experimentally validated to predict the dispersion of bimodal-polymer-brush “grafted to ”nanoparticles [14].“Grafting to” can be done using “click” chemistry.
 This type of reaction proceeds rapidly to completion and also tends to be highly selective for a single product [15]. This approach has been used for functionalization of silica [16–19] and also used as way to make “matrix free” silica polymer composite by using alkyne and azide modified polymer brushes on silica [20]. Polyglycidylmethacrylate (PGMA) has been “grafted to” TiO2 nanoparticles and mixed into an epoxy matrix resulting in a composite with high refractive index and transparency [21]. Additionally, it has been shown to have minimal effects on the crosslinking density of epoxy composites as a whole when grafted to silica nanoparticles [22]. Electroactive molecules have been attached to polymers grafted to a silica particle surface and the electroactivity of the molecules has been retained [23]. Electron acceptors like oligothiophene and ferrocene can be attached using click chemistry [24,25]. This study concentrates on the synthesis and dielectric properties of epoxy matrix nanocomposites with silica nanoparticles modified with a short ligand: oligothiophene or ferrocene to control the electrical properties and a long epoxy compatible ligand (PGMA) that ensures optimal dispersion.
'].
['##3.1 THE INTERFACE From IR spectroscopy, the presence of PGMA can be confirmed from the C=O vibration at 1736 cm-1 and a reduction in the characteristic peak of the azide group at 2110 cm-1. When PGMA chains alone are attached, the azide peak does not disappear, indicating that not all the azide has reacted, as the chains are too large to fill all the places available and graft density is thus limited by steric hindrance.
 When a short molecule (oligothiophene or ferrocene) is also used, the azide peak at 2110 cm-1 disappears indicating efficient attachment of the short molecule.
 The peak from 850–750 cm-1 is characteristic of SiO2. The oligothiophene modified particles result in a more intense C=O peak than the ferrocene modified particles (Figure 4). Ferrocene is known to be very reactive in “click” reactions [25] and it is possible that in a one-pot synthesis it will react much faster than longer PGMA and occupy most of the available positions.
 Oligothiophene absorbs at a wavelength 360 nm and ferrocene at 440 nm.
 Attachment of PGMA to the particle core was verified as a strong peak in the derivative of weight change versus temperature above 400 °C using TGA.
 This degradation peak differs from degradation of unattached PGMA that shows a strong peak below 400 °C.
 (Figure 5). ##3.2 THE DIELECTRIC COMPOSITE Simple visual inspection of composites with core functionalized silica and bare silica shows that grafted PGMA alone can help to disperse the silica in the epoxy and the transparency stays at a similar level for all the bimodal composites, though the ferrocene bimodal composite is slightly opaque (Figure 6). Representative TEM images from composites are shown in Figure 7. In composites containing bare silica, some of the silica particles are agglomerated, so the concentration of particles at the nano-scale was low.
 This indicates that the ferrocene modified particles had larger agglomerates (Figure 7c and 7d).This is likely due to an inadequate amount of PGMA on the ferrocene modified nanoparticles as indicated by the low intensity C=O peak in the IR spectra (Figure 4). Thus further optimization may be possible by reducing the amount of grafted ferrocene to leave room for the PGMA during the one-pot synthesis.
 Figure 8 displays breakdown data from a composites with 2 wt% oligothiophene and PGMA modified bimodal silica and 2 wt% ferrocene and PGMA modified bimodal nanoparticles compared to composites with 2 wt% PGMA modified silica in epoxy and neat epoxy data.
 This leads to the curved tails in the plot which are otherwise comparable in the same manner as a 2-parameter Weibull plot.
 Significant increases in the DBS were observed, represented by the 63.2% parameter calculated from α from the Weibull distribution plus the location parameter, t.
 2 wt% silica grafted with PGMA and oligothiophene provided an increase in the 63.2% characteristic DBS of greater than 40%. The free-space length Lf and 63.2% DBS with shape factor are shown in Table 1. An unexpectedly large location parameter is required for the 3-parameter Weibull fit.
 The 2 wt% PGMA modified particle composites have the same Lf as the 2 wt% oligothiophene and PGMA modified particle composites, but the DBS increases substantially with the addition of the oligothiophene short brush.
 From the viewpoint of eventual practical application, it is perhaps also important to observe from Figure 8 that the enhanced DBS for the functionalized formulations is also retained at low breakdown probabilities.
 Figure 9 displays the real and imaginary components of the dielectric constant as a function of frequency for representative composites.
 Losses stay at a low level for all other composites but the 2 wt% silica–PGMA-ferrocene composites; that had fewer particles dispersed at the nanoscale and larger Lf.
 (Table 1, Figure 6). The larger Lf indicates that some of the filler is agglomerated.
 The interfacial polarization of these inclusions could be responsible for the increase in low frequency losses for this particular composite [2]. All composites filled with matrix compatibilized silica do not exhibit any significant shift in the peaks in the imaginary permittivity, though a shift to lower frequency is seen in the bare silica composite.
