A study on the properties of PMMA/silica nanocomposites prepared via RAFT polymerization A number of batch polymerizations were performed to study the effect of pristine nanoparticle loading on the properties of PMMA/silica nanocomposites prepared via RAFT polymerization. In order to improve the dispersion of silica nanoparticles in PMMA matrix, the silanol groups of the silica are functionalized with methyl methacrylate groups and modified nanoparticles were used to synthesize PMMA/modified silica nanocomposites via RAFT polymerization. Prepared samples were characterized by thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), dynamic light scattering (DLS), dynamic mechanical thermal analysis (DMTA), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and gel permeation chromatography (GPC). According to results, introduction of modified nanoparticles results in better thermal and mechanical properties than those of pristine nanoparticles. Also, surface modification and increasing silica nanoparticles result in variation of thermal degradation behavior of nanocomposites. The best improvement of mechanical and thermophysical properties is achieved for nanocomposites containing 7 wt. % silica nanoparticles. [' Polymer/silica nanocomposites are widely employed as structural materials for their high strength and low density.
 The properties of a polymer, an elastomeric matrix, can be amazingly enhanced by the inclusion of hard inorganic particles.
 The resulting material, which makes use of both the softness of the polymer matrix and the strengthening features of the particles, constitutes new products for applications in mechanical, optical, fuel cells, and/or gas barrier engineering [1–3].  The mechanical performance of a nanocomposite depends on the level of adhesion at the interface between the dispersed and continuous phases.
 If the surface of the filler is incompatible with the polymer, the polymer and particle phases separate, which leads to the agglomeration of the particles [4–6]. The silica surface can be modified with silane coupling agents to improve adhesion between the particles and the polymer [7–10]. The coupling agent can react with OH groups of silica surface, and an attached functionalized alkyl chain is more compatible with the polymer than the bare surface of the silica.
 According to the functional groups of the coupling agent, either covalent bonds with the polymer can be created or it may just provide an organic coating on the silica which solvates the polymer.
  There are different methods including “grafting to” [11, 12], “grafting from” [13, 14], and “grafting through” [15–17] to graft polymer chains on the surface of nanoparticles.
 In “grafting to” method, the functional groups of the backbone chain of the polymer react with the functional groups on the surface of nanoparticles.
 Although this method is relatively easy, the attachment of some chains to the surface results in a spatial hindrance which can restrict the reaction between more chains and functional groups at surface.
 Hence, this method leads to relatively low grafting densities.
 On the other hand, the “grafting from” method modifies the surface of the nanoparticles with a moiety so as to initiate polymerization.
 However, in the “grafting through” method, a polymerizable group is attached to the surface of the particles.
 Although the graft density in the last two methods may be high enough, since the modified particles are multifunctional, the propagating chains can participate in termination reactions and cross-linking may occur.
 On the other hand, in “grafting from” method, the loading content of silica particles can affect the concentration of initiator.
 Thus, in the case of studying the effect of loading contents of nanoparticles, different concentrations of initiator should be used, which can affect the molecular weight of the produced polymers and their properties.
  Up until now, many polymerization techniques have been adapted for the preparation of polymer/silica nanocomposites, including conventional free radical [18], controlled/living radical polymerization (CLRP) [19–21], anionic [22], and cationic [23] polymerizations.
 To achieve optimum control over the structures of hybrids, CLRP techniques, because of their ability to prepare well-defined, narrow-polydispersity-index (PDI) polymers with versatile architectures, are preferred over the other methods.
 As compared with the other CLRP techniques, reversible addition fragmentation chain transfer (RAFT) polymerization has prominent advantages such as good compatibility with a wide range of monomers and facile experimental conditions which are similar to conventional radical polymerization in adding chain transfer agents (CTA’s) at the beginning of the reaction [24–26]. In RAFT polymerization systems, pre-equilibrium and main equilibrium reactions result in controlled and well-defined polymers in a wide range of temperatures.
 Thus, it is a robust method to prepare polymer-based nanocomposites having a matrix with narrow molecular weight distribution.
  In this work, PMMA/Silica nanocomposites were prepared via RAFT polymerization technique to study the effect of nanoparticle loading content on the nanocomposite properties.
 Additionally, to investigate the effect of modification, “grafting through” method was used to synthesize the well-defined PMMA/modified silica nanocomposites.
 To this end, silica nanoparticles were modified with 3-methacryloxypropyldimethylchlorosilane, which contains a methacrylate group, to participate in polymerization reactions.
 All the samples were analyzed using GPC, TGA, DMTA, and DSC techniques.
'].
 1 and 2 for LMPS and LMMS nanocomposites respectively.
 Monomer conversion increases by increasing silica content up to 7 wt% and then it decreases.
 This phenomenon might be attributed to the partially polarizing effect of the silica nanoparticles on the reaction medium and thereby its acceleration effect on the polymerization rate [6]. An increase in polymerization rate could also be ascribed to the creation of an effective flow facilitating the mobility of macromolecules [27] and a reduction in termination reactions due to an increase in viscosity.
 Also, a decrease in conversion at a loading content of 9 wt% could be ascribed to a reduction in system stability due to the formation of aggregates [28]. The same trend is seen for nanocomposites with modified nanoparticles; however, monomer conversion is lower in this case.
 A 9 wt% loading content of silica nanoparticles results in a conversion decrement due to a reduction in the system stability.
  According to the results, in both LMPS and LMMS nanocomposites, molecular weight of free chains increases by increasing silica contents up to 7 wt%. A reduction in termination reaction rate due to an increase in viscosity and the depression of the effect of physical phenomena (such as macromolecule diffusion) on polymerization rate constant at higher conversion could be the reasons for increasing number-average molecular weight.
 However, lower system stability in the presence of 9 wt% of nanoparticles may lead to a reduction in Mn.
 In addition, in the presence of lower amounts of silica, PDI values are smaller than 1.50, which means good control on molecular weight; nonetheless, the introduction of silica nanoparticles into polymerization media generally causes an increment in PDI values.
 A significant decrease in Mn of LMMS492 with respect to LMMS472 can be attributed to the formation of 3D networks composed of silica nanoparticles [30] which are bonded together covalently.
 These 3D networks reduce the mobility of free radicals and cause a decrease in conversion and molecular weight.
 Additionally, PDI rises as silica content increases and PDI values are much higher than those of free chains (2). It might be resulted from diffusional phenomena such as “shielding effect”, which makes free radicals and monomer diffuse difficultly to surface and thus the reaction will be diffusion-controlled.
 3). Mass loss differences from 100 °C to 600 °C including the mass loss of modifier are equal to 54.8, 49.3, 45.5, 40.9, and 38.7 wt% for LMMS412, LMMS432, LMMS452, LMMS472 and LMMS492 respectively.
 Therefore, there is considerable competition between polymerizable groups to react with radicals, which can result in a decrease in the grafting density (Table 2).  As shown in Figs.
 4 and 5, TGA technique was also used to study the thermal stability of nanocomposites prepared via RAFT polymerization.
 1 and 2). According to DTGA curves, two stages of degradation are observed in all PMMA/pristine silica and PMMA/modified silica nanocomposites.
 Such thermal behaviors have also been reported formerly [29]. Two stages of degradation were reported by Perrier et al. for PMA prepared via RAFT polymerization, which was attributed to chain-anchored RAFT agents and random chain scission [29]. Hence, it can be concluded that the first stage of degradation is related to the decomposition of thio- groups which is delayed by adding silica nanoparticles.
 Some thermal properties of the synthesized nanocomposites are summarized in Table 3. According to the results, random chain scission occurs from 280 °C to 360 °C and higher amounts of silica increases degradation temperature.
 Moreover, the degradation of chain-anchored RAFT agents takes place between 148 °C and 165 °C.
 Except for LMPS492, increasing silica contents augments thermal stability which is considerable in the case of modified silica nanoparticles.
 The decomposition temperature of LMPS492 is lower than that of LMPS472 due to agglomerations in which heat accumulates in some region of matrix; this causes the local degradation of matrix and thus a noticeable improvement in thermal stability is not seen.
 Figures 6 and 7 show the variation of storage modulus (E′) and tanδ versus temperature for nanocomposites with pristine and modified silica nanoparticles.
 In addition, some properties are tabulated in Table 4. According to the results obtained, the storage modulus values of all the LMMS and LMPS nanocomposites are higher than that of the neat PMMA; nevertheless, in both cases, storage modulus of nanocomposite containing 7 wt % silica is higher than that of nanocomposite containing 9 wt % silica.
 At 9 wt % loading of nanoparticles, the silica agglomeration occurs, which weakens polymer-filler interactions; in other words, at 7 wt % silica content a better dispersion favors the polymer-filler interactions.
 Also, E′ in the rubbery region shows the same trend as that in the glassy region (Table 4), where the system with 7 wt% silica leads to a maximum modulus.
 8. It is clear that a better dispersion is achieved for LMMS samples, while more agglomerations are seen for LMPS ones.
 Also, increasing silica content causes to form more agglomerations and best dispersion is observed for LMMS432. Table 4 also shows Tg values as the temperature at which tanδ is maximum.
 It can be seen that the highest Tg value is obtained when 7 wt% silica is added in both LMMS and LMPS nanocomposites; however, Tg values of LMMS nanocomposites are higher than that of LMPS nanocomposites.
 6 and 7 and Table 4). The lower PMMA concentration is reflected in the lower tanδ heights.
 Additionally, as already explained, the DSC results for Tg values support those from DMTA, but Tg values measured by DMTA are higher than those by DSC by 0.4–4.2 °C (Table 4).  ###Particle size distribution  Figure 9 shows DLS results for hybrid silica-g-PMMA hybrid particles.
 After polymerization, the particle size of nanoparticles increases to 36.4, 34.1, 33.2, 30.1, and 34.3 for LMMS412, LMMS432, LMMS452, LMMS472, and LMMS492 respectively.
 It is seen that the thickness of PMMA shell due to a decrease of the ratio of monomer to polymerizable groups on surface reduces as silica content increases up to 7 wt%; this is also supported by the TGA results.
 9, particle size increases for LMMS492. A distinct peak at about 100 nm is a result of crosslinking reactions between modified silica nanoparticles as multi-functional sites.
