Electrical properties of epoxy resin based nano-composites*We investigate the electrical properties of composite materials prepared as nano- and sub-micron-scale metal-oxide particles embedded in a commercial resin. The filler particles are barium titanate and calcium copper titanate. The physical and structural characteristics of the constituents and the fabricated composites are reported. Electrical characterization of the composite samples is performed using time- and frequency-domain dielectric spectroscopy techniques. The electrical breakdown strength of samples with nano- and sub-micron-sized particles have better electrical insulation properties than the unfilled resin. ['Novel composite materials are expected to be the next frontier of dielectric materials research (Cao et al 2004, Nelson and Hu 2005, Nelson and Fothergill 2004, Fr´echette et al 2004). There are numerous application possibilities for such materials to replace existing insulation systems based on traditional materials, which can be tailored with the addition of fillers for system specific applications.
 For instance, there is the potential to fabricate functional materials with better surface, thermal and mechanical properties without losing the electrical insulation characteristics of the base material. Preliminary research reports on the electrical properties and dielectric strength of nano-dielectrics have been presented at several international conferences during the past few years and an increase in the number of papers published on the subject has been observed in the literature.
 Some of the critical, guiding review papers (Cao et al 2004, Nelson and Hu 2005, Nelson and Fothergill 2004, Fr´echette et al 2004) have explicitly illustrated the significance of developing nanodielectrics for the power industry.
 Composite systems currently being studied include conventional insulating polymers, e.
g.
, polyethylene, polyimide, silicone, epoxy resin etc, filled with inorganic powders such as titanium dioxide, aluminium oxide, silicon oxide, clays etc.
 In this paper, we concentrate on two different metal-oxide filler particles, barium titanate (BTO) and calcium copper titanate (CCTO), in a commercial epoxy resin.
 The particles have high dielectric constants, higher than 100 at optical frequencies (Tselev et al 2004, Izuhara and Gheorma 2003). Unlike other works in the literature, to illustrate the structural features of the particles and the composites, transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images are included.
 '].
['##3.1. Structural properties Figure 1 shows x-ray diffraction patterns of the inorganic filler particles.
 Note that the as-received commercial BTO particles and BTO prepared in our laboratories show the presence of a single BTO phase in their x-ray diffraction patterns, figure 1(a). The as-received CCTO particles were nano-sized, however they were not pure, the particles did not contain the desired CCTO phase, see figure 1(b) bottom graph.
 It was found that temperatures over 850 ◦C formed the desired single CCTO phase, figure 1(b) top graph.
 However, the particle size becomes much larger, around 200 nm (sub-micron), and they fuse to each other forming chain-like aggregate structures 1–2 μm in size, see figure 2(a). The as-received BTO particles are, on the other hand, spherical and nano-sized with particle sizes ranging from 25 to 100 nm (figure 2(b)). The BTO particles are highly defective and comprise polycrystalline and nano-crystalline BTO.
 In addition to cubic BTO (perovskite structure) and hexagonal BTO, a very small amount of amorphous particles was observed for the as-received BTO nano-powder, cf figure 2(b). The BTO particles prepared in our laboratory had larger particle sizes than the as-received BTO particles (figure 3). The surface profiles and particle distributions of nano and sub-micron BTO filled resins are similar when AFM images are considered, as shown in figure 3. Transmission electron microscopy images of a BTO filled resin sample are shown in figure 4. Although the individual particles were nano-sized, the samples were opaque.
 The reason for this is clear in the TEM images in figure 4. The particles were close to each other, forming particle clusters 1– 2 μm in size without any particle aggregates.
 As shown in figure 2(b), the BTO particles are 20–200 nm in diameter, and no significant structural differences are observed in the BTO particles after they are embedded in the resin.
 ##3.2. Electrical properties The isothermal time-domain relaxation response of composites with BTO particles at room temperature is shown in figure 5. We have adopted a non-parametric data inversion method to analyse the impedance data (Tuncer and Macdonald 2006, Tuncer and Guba´nski 2001). In this method, the current is expressed as a sum of single relaxation processes, I (t) = { G0δ(t) + Σi P0i τ −1 i exp[−(tτ −1 i )] } V0 (1) or in a more general form with the distribution of relaxation times g(τ ), I (t) = { G0δ(t) + P0 ∫ g(τ )τ −1 i exp[−(tτ −1 i )] dτ } V0. (2) To solve g(τ ) in equation (2), we applied a novel method based on the Monte Carlo technique and constrained-leastsquares algorithm (Adlers 1998). The numerical method has previously been applied to several different dielectric related problems in which the distribution of relaxation times was resolved from the frequency response (Tuncer et al 2005, Tuncer and Macdonald 2004, Tuncer and Guba´nski 2001); the space charge or polarization distributions were emulated for test cases (Tuncer and Lang 2005); the spectral density functions of several composite systems were calculated with the same algorithm (Tuncer 2005b, 2005c, 2005a). The response function in figure 5(a) is the measured current divided by the geometrical capacitance of the electrodes.
 It is expected that when small amounts of particles are used, the relaxation polarization in the mixture due to the presence of the particles should be low, yielding a weak interfacial polarization (Tuncer 2005c, Tuncer et al 2002). The electrical response of the composites is slightly different to that of the unfilled base resin.
 In figure 6, the dielectric permittivity of the composite samples are shown as a function of wt% of CCTO.
 All samples with CCTO concentrations lower than 3 wt%, yield numerically low permittivity values compared with the matrix resin.
 Similar observations have previously been reported in the literature (Nelson and Fothergill 2004, Fragiadakis et al 2005). The reason for a lower permittivity is that the matrix material loses its freedom to relax under the applied voltage with the inclusion of particles.
 The structure of the base resin changes with the introduction of particle inclusions, which forces the resin chains to become immobile (Bistac et al 1999). The decrease in the segmental mobility influences the molecular polarization, yielding a decrease in the background resin’s dielectric permittivity.
 To classify its potential and to ascertain the insulating properties, dielectric breakdown tests have been performed on polyimide (Nguyen et al 2005, Miyairi 2001, Raju et al 2003). To quantify such measurements is an engineering and scientific issue, since the data are usually incomplete due to the nature of the tests and samples (Hill and Dissado 1983, Rowland et al 1986). Weibull statistics (Weibull 1939, 1951) has frequently been adopted to investigate the breakdown behaviour of different systems.
 Figure 7 shows the differences between unfilled resin and filled resin with sub-micron and nano BTO particles.
 Figure 8 shows a summary of all the measurements performed on the composites prepared with the BTO and CCTO particles.
 Λ = mean(Ebd) / max Ebd − min Ebd . (3) Although the above equation can be considered weak, it is a faster way of screening samples and batches than the Weibull or similar distribution based analyses.
 In figure 8(b), the merit parameters are plotted for comparison.
 However as stated above, the sub-micron BTO filled sample (mBTO) has a very small discrepancy between the maximum and minimum parameters (Weibull statistics shown in figure 7), leading to the highest merit parameter compared with the others.
