45% Periodicity Reduction in Nanocomposite Thin Films via Rapid Solvent Removal In comparison to top-down approaches, nanocomposite thin films are more compatible with nanoparticle (NP) chemistry, device integration, and scalable manufacturing. Nanocomposites have long been promised as an ideal option to fabricate metamaterials that harvest the collective properties enabled by ordered 3D NP assemblies. However, most of accessible NP assemblies, governed by their phase diagrams, are not suitable to achieve the targeted properties and require lengthy assembly processes. Here, we investigated the kinetic pathway of NP assembly in lamellar supramolecular nanocomposite thin films during solvent vapor annealing and after solvent removal. By balancing the solvent field, diffusion rate, and thermodynamic driving force during rapid solvent removal (<3 s), we produced well-ordered 3D NP assemblies far away from the equilibrium state. Their degree of ordering depends on the terminal solvent fraction rather than the exact rapid solvent removal rate. The periodicity of these nanocomposites can be readily decoupled from the NP size and reduced to ∼50% of the periodicity in melt. The current study provides a facile approach to access nonequilibrium structures in nanocomposite thin films for the fabrication of functional metamaterial coatings. SUBJECTS: Supramolecular structures and assemblies,Thin films,Nanocomposites,Solvents,Order ['Organic/inorganic hybrid nanocomposites with hierarchical structures hold the promise to harvest synergetic responses from nanoscopic building blocks to access novel macroscopic properties.
 (1) For example, nanocomposites with resonant nanofillers are potential candidates for metamaterials, offering new freedom in manipulating light–matter interactions on a deep-subwavelength scale.
 (2) Numerous successes have been demonstrated via top-down fabrication such as lithography and ion milling.
 (3) However, those approaches are limited in terms of controlling composition, 3D architecture, and much-needed scalability.
 Directed assembly processes, such as DNA, (4) evaporation, (5) and layer-by-layer deposition, (6) have also been explored with some successes.
 Thin films of polymer/nanoparticle (NP) blends offer the highly desirable capabilities of scalable processing and device integration.
 (7) However, the spatial arrangement of NPs in a nanostructured polymeric matrix is typically governed by the phase behavior of the polymeric matrix, which leaves rather limited freedom in pattern design.
 (8−10) Solvent vapor annealing offers the opportunity to accelerate assembly kinetics and the flexibility to tune the morphology and macroscopic alignment in thin films of block copolymers (BCPs) and BCP/NP blends.
 (11) Apart from the annealing process, solvent selection (12) and solvent removal process (13) may also affect the NP dispersion in polymer films.
 Controlling the assembly pathway with high precision and reproducibility provides a viable path to access nonequilibrium structures to meet morphological needs toward functional composites.
 The solvent evaporation rate determines the morphology and structural orientation in BCP thin films.
 (14,15) Rapid solvent removal can kinetically trap the thin film morphology in the swollen state and usually presents as a nonequilibrium process.
 Here, we study the solvent vapor annealing process in thin films of lamellar supramolecular nanocomposites with rapid solvent removal to access nonequilibrium NP assemblies.
 By balancing solvent field and supramolecular assembly during rapid solvent removal, the NP size and lamellar periodicity are decoupled.
 Approximately 50% reduction in the lamellar periodicity was achieved for the first time in nanocomposite thin films containing NPs in the size range of 3–12 nm.
 Equally important, highly ordered NP assemblies can be obtained using rapid solvent removal. Present studies demonstrate the feasibility to access nonequilibrium structures toward functional materials through rapid and facile fabrication.
'].
['Supramolecules are effective for producing organized 3D NP assemblies.
 (7) The coil-comb supramolecule, PS(40 kDa)-b-P4VP(5.6 kDa)(PDP)1, is constructed by hydrogen bonding a small molecule, 3-pentadecylphenol (PDP), to the 4-vinylpyridine units in the BCP, polystyrene-block-poly(4-vinylpyridine). (19) A molar ratio of 1:1 4VP:PDP was used in this work.
 The supramolecule forms a lamellar morphology with a periodicity (L) of 32 nm in bulk without addition of NPs, as shown in Figure 1a,d.
 The P4VP(PDP) domain is selectively stained by iodine vapor shown as the dark regions, and the PS domain is shown as the light regions in the TEM image.
 Alkyl-passivated NPs, independent of the core chemistry, are selectively incorporated in the P4VP(PDP) lamellar microdomain due to the favorable interaction between the alkyl ligands and the PDP.
 (20) NPs, 3 and 12 nm in size (Figure S2), form stacks of NP sheets in the supramolecular nanocomposites with a periodicity of ∼41 nm as verified by TEM images in Figure 1b,c and small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS) profiles in Figure 1d.
 In DNA-guided NP assemblies, the interparticle distances can be tuned by 30% with molecular intercalators, (21) 80% under applied osmotic pressure, (22) or 63% after dehydration.
 (23) However, these approaches still lack the scalability and processability to fabricate macroscopic materials.
 In the strong segregation limit, the equilibrium periodicity of a BCP follows L ∝ χ1/6N2/3, where χ is the Flory–Huggins interaction parameter and N is the degree of polymerization.
 (24) The dependence of periodicity on χ is weak, and the tunability of BCP periodicity is limited.
 In BCP thin films, the best reported periodicity reduction is 19.5% after solvent vapor annealing (24) and 50% using direct solvent immersion.
 (25) However, NP incorporation in the BCP matrix typically leads to increased structural periodicity and less compressibility.
 It was shown both experimentally and theoretically that in polymer/NP blends there is a NP size limit, ∼30% of the matrix periodicity, above which NPs were expelled from the polymeric matrix and aggregated on the film surface.
 (10,26−28) There has been no success to assemble NPs within lamellae with a thickness similar to the particle size.
 (18,24,25) Rapid solvent removal leads to significant changes in film thickness and thus the morphology of the 3D NP assemblies.
 Figure 2a shows 2D in situ GISAXS patterns of a 140 nm supramolecular film containing 6 vol % of 3 nm Au NPs during solvent vapor annealing under chloroform vapor.
 At fs = 0.31, the swollen film forms well-ordered parallel lamellae showing many high-order diffractions along the qz direction.
 The vertical line-cut profile at qy = 0.0015 Å–1 in Figure 2b indicates a lamellar periodicity of ∼38 nm.
 The effective Flory–Huggins interaction parameter of a BCP in the presence of solvent is defined as χeff = χ(1 – fs). The decrease of χeff led to up to 19.5% reductions in periodicity in BCP thin films.
 (24) For this supramolecule system, the solvent disrupts the small molecule packing, softens chain rigidity, mediates repulsive interactions among the components, (18) and should also reduce the supramolecular periodicity.
 However, there is only ∼7% periodicity reduction from the bulk.
 (24) Upon further increase of fs, the parallel lamellar structures become less ordered at fs = 0.43 as indicated by the halo at qy = 0.0018 Å–1. As the value of χeff keeps getting smaller, the in situ GISAXS pattern at fs = 0.48 primarily shows the form factor of the NPs and scattering from the correlation hole, suggesting that the supramolecular nanocomposite has evolved into a disordered state.
 (18) Fast solvent removal from a swollen film reduces the film thickness.
 (25) However, with rapid solvent removal (within 3 s), components in the supramolecular nanocomposite film may still have enough mobility to reorder, and the final morphology can be affected by the vertical solvent field (15) that can lead to structural changes and reorientation of NP lamellae.
 (29)Figure 2c displays cross-sectional TEM images of the films after fast solvent removal at different fs.
 The as cast film (fs = 0) shows randomly distributed NPs in the matrix.
 After solvent removal at fs = 0.31, NP lamellae remain parallel to the surface at both interfaces but are reoriented normal to the surface in the center of the film that can be attributed to the strong effect of the vertical solvent field.
 Removing the solvent at a higher fs may minimize the effects of the vertical solvent field from biasing the ordering process (14) and, thus, retaining the parallel NP lamellae.
 Rapid solvent removal at fs = 0.48 preserves the overall parallel orientation of NP lamellae; however, the level of parallel alignment of NP lamellae is reduced with disordered NPs in some regions.
 A good balance between minimizing solvent field effects and improving long-range order of NP lamellae was found at fs = 0.43. Rapid solvent removal at fs = 0.43 leads to a stack of parallel NP lamellae throughout the film.
 The vertical line cuts of static GISAXS patterns in Figure 2d and X-ray reflectivity (XR) profiles in Figure 2e of the films after solvent removal indicate the macroscopic ordering of NP assemblies, which are in good agreement with the TEM images in Figure 2c.
 Films exhibit highest order of parallel NP lamellae with a periodicity ∼22 nm, 45% reduction from the bulk periodicity, after solvent removal at fs = 0.43. The periodicity of parallel lamellae is ∼26 or ∼20 nm when solvent is removed at fs = 0.31 or 0.48, respectively.
 (25) However, there are more complexities in the supramolecular system that require further investigation.
 (30) Qualitatively, the chain collapsing upon solvent removal may contribute significantly to the size reduction of the PS lamellae.
 For the P4VP(PDP) lamellae, however, chain collapsing cannot be the sole reason since the P4VP chain is very short, and there are free PDP molecules and the incompressible NPs.
 Different assembly structures were obtained with very small changes in the terminal solvent fraction before rapid solvent removal. Thin films in Figure 3a containing 9 vol % of 3, 10, and 12 nm NPs were prepared by solvent vapor annealing to fs = 0.43 followed by fast solvent removal. The resultant films retained the parallel lamellar structures throughout the ∼120 nm films with lamellar periodicities of ∼22 nm independent of NP size in the 3–12 nm range.
 XR profiles of the thin films in Figure 3b show multiple Bragg peaks confirming well-defined parallel lamellar structures with uniformity over macroscopic distances and periodicities consistent with the TEM image analysis.
 With the same SVA treatment, the supramolecular thin film forms a lamellar morphology with a periodicity of ∼19 nm, as shown in Figure 3a.
 While the periodicity of bulk samples expands from ∼32 nm (Figure 1a) to ∼41 nm (Figure 1c) after NP incorporation, the periodicity of nanocomposite thin films is relatively independent of NP size and remains ∼20 nm.
 The nanocomposite periodicity in thin films is significantly decreased to ∼50% of bulk samples (Figure 3c). Previous in situ studies on cylindrical supramolecular films under solvent vapor annealing confirmed that the assembly kinetics depend on both system mobility and overall thermodynamic driving force to annihilate defects.
 Solvent volume fraction, fs, is the key factor for assembly, and the degree of order peaks at the intermediate fs ∼ 0.3. (18)In situ GISAXS in Figure 2a clearly confirmed the evolution of degree of order as a function of fs, i.
, poor order at fs < 0.3, highest order at fs ∼ 0.3, and reduced order at fs > 0.3. This is particularly true where the nanocomposite disorders at fs ∼ 0.48. The relationship between periodicity reduction and solvent removal was not explored in the previous in situ studies.
 (18) Solvent removal rate has a significant effect on BCP thin film morphology.
 (15) Rapid solvent removal on the time scale of seconds was used to kinetically trap the film morphology in the swollen state (31) or to generate perpendicular structures based on the solvent field during evaporation.
 (14,32) Most previous studies on solvent removal were usually conducted on the time scale of minutes to hours, (31,33) and the periodicity reduction was not significant.
 (34,35) However, supramolecular nanocomposite films containing small molecules and small NPs could have higher mobility than coil–coil BCPs during solvent removal, and it is more challenging to kinetically trap the morphology in the swollen state by simple instantaneous quenching.
 The present study differs from all previous reports and focuses on how the terminal solvent fraction in rapid solvent removal (within 3 s) affects the morphology of final assembly.
 Figure 4 displays the estimated critical parameters as a function of fs in a swollen film based on a simplified model of NP and PS in chloroform to further understand the various processes during solvent removal. The glass transition temperature of the film (Tg) in Figure 4a decreases below room temperature at fs = 0.25. (36) The viscosity of the matrix (η) in Figure 4b decays prominently as solvent penetrates into the film.
 (36) The calculation of diffusivity in Figure 4c is based on the diffusion of solvent, (37) NP, (38) small molecule, or polymer (36) in solutions.
 (18,39) On the basis of the color change of the film, it takes <1 s for fs to reduce below 0.25, where the nanocomposite loses mobility and is frozen.
 The diffusivities of all building blocks reduce by ∼2 orders of magnitude during solvent removal. Qualitative estimation of diffusivities indicated that only short-range diffusion is feasible for supramolecules, whereas the diffusion of solvent, PDP small molecules, and NPs may well exceed 100 nm in a homogeneous media.
 If we assume all the PDP strongly bond to P4VP and define χeff = χPS-P4VP(PDP)(1– fs), like that in BCPs, χeffN in Figure 4d calculated based on Hanson solubility parameters (40) is greatly above the strong segregation limit in the range of 0.1 < fs < 0.5. However, PDP becomes partially soluble in PS as fs increases, and the actual χeffN is expected to decrease faster with increasing fs than that plotted in Figure 4d.
 As illustrated in Figure 4e, the mobilities of different components increase with fs, but the thermodynamic driving force to order decreases with fs.
 (18) In regime I at fs < 0.25, films are in kinetically trapped states with poor order.
 In region IV at fs > 0.48, films are in disordered states as χeffN is below the threshold to order.
 In region II and III at 0.25 < fs < 0.48, films with good order can be achieved with balance of the system mobility and thermodynamic driving force.
 For solvent removal at fs ∼ 0.31, the interdomain diffusion bears very high energetic barriers and vertical solvent field macroscopically aligns the microdomain, (14) most likely via a grain-rotation pathway.
 For solvent removal at fs ∼ 0.48, the solvent field has very little effect in biasing the macroscopic alignment of the microdomains, attributed to several factors, i.
 For solvent removal at fs ∼ 0.43, the nanocomposite film orders immediately upon small reduction in fs.
 As fs drops from 0.43 to 0.31, the short-range diffusion is feasible to improve local ordering in response to a strong driving force to order.
 Lamellar Au NP assemblies shown in Figure 5a have both in-plane and out-of-plane coupling modes (details in section SI 3). The in-plane coupling between 12 nm NPs is very strong but weak for 3 nm NPs.
 Significant reduction of the lamellar periodicity (L) from 41 to 22 nm enables strong out-of-plane plasmon coupling for 12 nm NPs, improving the tunability of optical anisotropy as shown in Figure S4. Transmission spectra of 140 nm nanocomposite thin films with 9 vol % of 12 nm Au NPs were measured with angle-resolved optical spectroscopy.
 (41) The transmission spectra of the as-cast film in Figure 5b, comprising an amorphous arrangement of NPs, show an angle-independent response with the transmission minimum remaining unshifted at the center wavelength of 538 nm.
 However, the transmission minimum of the annealed film in Figure 5c containing lamellae of 12 nm NPs blue-shifts from 549 to 536 nm as the incident angle changes from 0° to 30°. In comparison, the measured transmission spectra of both as-cast and annealed thin films containing 9 vol % of 3 nm Au NPs show angle-independent transmission in Figure 5b,c due to the weak interparticle couplings between the small NPs, as expected from their size.
