Interfacial charge behavior in nanodielectricsIn recent years, the availability and low cost of nanometric-sized filler particles have generated great interest in polymer nanocomposites for a host of applications, including electrical insulation with enhanced breakdown and voltage endurance properties. This work combines the results of several experiments to add insight to the processes taking place in the crucial polymer transition region near the particle surfaces. The relative tendency to accumulate space charge under a high DC field is investigated through pulsed electroacoustic (PEA) apparatus. DC transient (absorption) currents reveal a quasi-DC conductivity that is surprisingly high in the nanocomposite, a result that is reinforced by dielectric spectroscopy, which also indicates a reduction in the nanocomposite’s real permittivity. Thermally-stimulated currents reveal the presence of shallow traps that accompany the nanoparticle inclusions. Taken together, the results of the study indicate that the transition region is responsible for the desirable nanocomposite bulk properties which are today of interest, and help explain the difference in performance between these new materials and both unfilled resin and conventional composites composed of micronsized fillers. ['The last decade has seen a dramatic rise in interest in nanofilled materials for electrical insulation applications [1]. As fillers of nanometric dimensions become increasingly available, recognition of the importance of the space immediately surrounding the nanofiller surfaces has grown.
 In this region, properties like density, conductivity, and permittivity give way smoothly to those of the unaffected bulk polymer [2]. These interfacial transition regions, or interaction zones, of roughly a few tens of nm in extent, can affect the bulk properties of a nanocomposite, especially if the filler loading is sufficient to allow for percolation (i.
e.
, overlap) of these interfacial volumes.
 Such a situation is unlikely for a microfilled (conventional) composite, since very high filler loadings would be required.
 For nanocomposites, the bulk property improvements, such as those seen in voltage endurance [3] and breakdown strength [4], are believed to be a direct result of activities in these transition zones.
 Mechanistic studies are therefore desirable, to learn as much as possible about the nature of the interfaces and their corresponding bulk effects.
 '].
 Space Charge Analysis Laminar sample preparation details have been published previously [5]. The pulsed electroacoustic (PEA) method [6] was applied at room temperature to laminar samples of crosslinked base resin (XLPE, consisting of about 30% crystalline lamellae, according to differential scanning calorimetry tests) and silica-in-XLPE as 12½ wt% microcomposites and vinylsilane-functionalized (VS) nanocomposites.
 A 30 kV/mm DC poling field was applied for three hours, during which time snapshots of the resulting charge density profiles were gathered.
 1 illustrates the base resin profile [7]. It is seen that injected homopolar charge accumulates in front of both the cathode and anode.
 2), although the progression of the charge density into the material has been reduced from that of the base resin.
 3), evidence of charge accumulation is notably absent.
 For the base resin and microcomposite, the progression of the charge front is well-defined enough to allow the calculation of the charge mobility μ of the injected charges, according to μ = v/E (m2/Vs) (1) where v is the velocity of the charge front and E the electric field intensity in the charge region.
 The resulting mobilities are given in Table 1. Note that no mobilities are indicated for the nanocomposite.
 3 does indeed reveal the presence of some homocharge adjacent to both electrodes, but its temporal change is below the specified resolution of the instrumentation (0.1 C/m3). Thus it is concluded that the introduction of microparticles reduces the charge mobility by about half, while nanoparticles provide some further hindrance to the movement of charge.
 Absorption Current Room-temperature absorption currents were measured by applying 30 kV/mm DC to the laminar samples and measuring the resulting currents as a function of time.
 Absorption current measurements are sometimes used to investigate the presence of polarization, space charge accumulation, slow dipole orientation, and quasi-DC conduction [8]. Fig.
 4 illustrates the results of the experiment.
 The microcomposite displays a curious current rise, beginning at about 900 seconds, which continues throughout the testing duration.
 In fact, conventional composite materials used for electrical insulator applications are known to experience Maxwell- Wagner-Sillars polarization at the matrix/filler interfaces [9], which is characterized by a slow migration of charges with accumulation at these interfaces.
 Another interesting feature of the absorption plot is the quasi-DC (10,000 second) conductivity that is calculated from the measured currents (all test samples had nominally identical geometry). The nanocomposites, both untreated and VS-functionalized, appear to be approaching higher values of conductivity (4.8 and 3.4x10-16 S/m, respectively), while the base resin’s 10,000 second value is 1.4x10-16 S/m.
 6 hour conductivity experiment results at 60°C (not shown) confirm this general result: the nanocomposites are more conductive than the base resin, at least at 12½ wt% (5½ vol%) loading.
 Dielectric Spectroscopy Low-field, room-temperature spectroscopy was performed on laminar samples of base resin and 12½ wt% composites.
 5 presents the real permittivity spectra for frequencies 10-4 Hz < f < 106 Hz.
, Landau-Lifschitz and Maxwell- Garnett [10]), but nanocomposites often do not comply well with these relationships.
 In fact, nanocomposite permittivities in some frequency ranges have been found to be less than those of each of their constituents [3,5]. This suggests that the pervasive interaction zone in the nanocomposite plays a notable role in the dielectric behavior, since the possibility of entangled polymer chains and bonding or other interactions with the filler can reduce the dipole-moment density [2]. Further, the nanocomposites do not show evidence of lowfrequency interfacial polarization to the same extent as the microcomposite.
 6 gives the imaginary (loss) permittivity spectra.
 5) and imaginary permittivities as low frequencies are approached; the subsequent buildup of charge results in an apparent rise in the real permittivity.
 If percolation of the interaction regions is assumed [11], the increased nanocomposite quasi-DC conductivity is likely a result of increased conductivity in the transition region.
 It has been suggested that the space surrounding nanometric fillers tends to be quite heavily charged [2], the result of migration of compensating charges during the molding process.
 4). ##D.
 For that purpose, a thermally-stimulated current (TSC) experiment [12] was carried out on the materials, using laminar samples that were heated to 80°C, then cooled to -100°C under liquid nitrogen while being poled at 30 kV/mm.
 The poling field was then removed, and each sample heated at 3°C per minute to +100°C while being shorted through a recording picoammeter.
 The resulting current peaks, as a function of the absolute temperature T, are fitted to Arrhenius plots to determine the trap depths Et according to I = Iδ exp[-Et/kT] (2) where Iδ is a constant and k is the Boltzmann constant.
 7 illustrates an example of the TSC results for 12½ wt% VSnanocomposite.
 The location of the 63°C peak is slightly elevated from that of unfilled XLPE (60°C), presumably due to the bonding of polymer chains to the particles through the coupling agent [13]. The sources of the traps (crystalline defects, crystalline/amorphous interfaces, etc.
) have been determined through prior experimentation [14]. More importantly, an examination of the deepest traps in each of the materials tested (Table II) reveals that all the nanocomposites possess a population of traps that are considerably shallower than the unfilled and microfilled resins.
 This could have important implications for the transport of charge throughout the bulk of the nanocomposites, since thermal promotion of charges to the conduction band depends upon the minimum energy required Ec-Et, where Ec is the energy at the bottom of the conduction band [15]. Therefore, a significant number of shallower traps could explain the larger quasi-DC conduction tests.
