Polymer Composites with a Large Nanofiller Content: A Case Study Involving EpoxyA situation involving a polymer nanocomposite containing a large amount of inorganic filler was studied. An epoxy nanocomposite with a content of 20% wt of nanosilica was used. Emphasis was put on imaging at the nanoscale and some dielectric responses were measured using dielectric spectroscopy. Using Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM) in a High-Angle Annular Dark Field (HAADF) scanning mode, an area of less than 4 nm around an isolated particle was imaged and found to have a very low atomic number. With Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM) in peak-force mode agglomerates were clearly imaged. With respect to the dielectric response, no interfacial relaxation peak was observed. In presence of some agglomeration, the real part of the permittivity was found to be decreased by the addition of the nanofiller. Higher-field measurements unravelled nonlinear variations of the conduction versus an applied field. It was shown that the use of a large filler concentration resulted in greater interphase overlapping between the nanoparticles. Index Terms - Nanodielectrics, polymer nanocomposites, epoxy composites, nanosilica filler, electron microscopy, dielectric responses, particle interphase. ['SUBSEQUENT to the emergence of nanodielectrics in their modern form [1], development work and studies over the last decade have mostly focused on polymer nanocomposites [2, 3]. For various reasons, some proposed material compositions contained a large amount of nanofillers and this practice, from the point of view of nanostructuration, has often been questioned.
 Are they really nanostructured dielectrics? This study was carried out using an epoxy-based material with a 20% wt content of nanometric SiO2 filler.
 In spite of the use of the plasticizer [4], a large content of nano-additive was found to bring about a large increase in the glass transition temperature (Tg). Referenced to neat epoxy, the gain amounted to 66 degrees to reach a Tg of 148 oC.
 Thus, a great quantity of interfaces and local changes in morphology are considered to hamper molecular movement.
 Increasing the amount of nanofillers was found not to produce a linear increase in the dielectric response as measured by Broadband Dielectric Spectroscopy (BDS). The relative real permittivity seems to saturate with an increase in the % content of nanosilica, reaching a value of 3.95 (at 60 Hz) at 20 %wt.
 The observed losses confirmed the known trends, namely the occurrence of a shift of the alpha peak towards higher temperatures.
 At 80 oC, the use of such a large content of nanosilica was found to result in significantly lower losses in the frequency range from 105 to 10-1 Hz and disappearance of the so-called quasi DC conduction [4]. This effect was found irrespective of the use of post-treatment that takes care of water ingression.
 It implies that the effect is mostly linked to the nanosilica and associated interfaces.
 This paper asserts on the importance of microstructure in playing a role in polymer nanocomposites.
 This study was carried out using a flexibilized epoxy-based material with a 20% wt content of nanometric SiO2 filler.
 Also, the emphasis was put on imaging the microstructure of the nanocomposite and the dispersion of the filler.
 To this effect, Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) was used and Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM) and Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM) were employed to gain access at the nanoscopic scale.
 Moreover, Broadband Dielectric Spectroscopy was used to illustrate the dielectric responses of this type of heavy-loaded composites.
 Finally, part of this paper was already reported in the proceedings of the Conference on Electrical Insulation and Dielectric Phenomena (CEIDP) held in 2012. This version was improved and supplemented with additional results.
 '].
