Preparation and Characterization of High Content Graphene Nanoplatelet-Polyetherimide PaperPolyetherimide (PEI)-graphene nanoplatelet (GNP) (PEIGNP) papers, with extremely high GNP loadings (up to nearly 100 wt%), were produced by filtration and hot-press. The impact of the GNP content on the impedance and mechanical properties, such as damping behavior, was investigated. Although the PEIGNP papers showed some decreases in tensile strength and strain at break, dynamic mechanical analysis (DMA) has shown that, compared with either the pristine GNP paper or the neat PEI film, the storage modulus of the PEIGNP papers increased 700% to 2,000% and the capacity to dissipate damping energy in terms of loss modulus was substantially improved by up to 3,000%. The tan δ value gained more than 500%, indicating that a higher fraction of applied energy was converted to heat. In addition, the PEI with relatively smaller molecular weight and the larger GNPs exhibited better damping effects. The results suggest that GNP-reinforced polymer-based nanocomposites could be used in applications that require energy-absorption upon dynamic loading. In addition, all PEIGNP papers in this study exhibited substantially low impedance because of high GNP loadings. Keywords Graphene, Mechanical Property, Conductivity, Damping, Polyetherimide ['Graphenes have attracted tremendous research interest due to their excellent electrical conductivity (approximately 1.0 x 10-6 Ω cm resistivity) [1], thermal conductivity (about 5000 Wm-1K-1) [2-6] and mechanical properties (Young’s modulus of 1.0 TPa and intrinsic strength of 130 GPa) [7]. These exceptional properties potentially offer revolutionary applications in various areas.
 One of these applications is to assemble the nanoplatelets to form a macroscopic, paper-like, freestanding sheet called graphene paper.
 Graphene paper has a variety of applications, including as lithium battery electrodes [8], freestanding electrodes for flexible supercapacitors [9], and electromagnetic interference shielding sheets [10-11]. The mechanical properties, thermal conductivity, electrical conductivity and energy dissipation capacities have been intensely investigated and graphenerelated composites are reported to be the next-generation multifunctional super-materials [2-7, 12]. There have been numerous reports on graphene paper fabrication methods.
 Two types can be found in publication depending on whether or not a binder material is used.
 If no binders are employed, the graphenes are typically derived from graphite oxide (GO), which is often produced with Hummers’ method [13, 14] or the modified Hummers’ method [15]. Natural graphite powder is harshly oxidized to generate graphite oxide, and this is followed by the sonication exfoliation of the GO in water.
 The GO is then reduced back to graphenes by annealing, microwave, or a reaction with a reducing agent (for example, hydrazine monohydrate). The final graphene paper is formed by filtration.
 One advantage of this method is that the graphenes prepared are flexible enough to provide wrinkles for mechanical interlocking, and there are rich oxygen groups that allow for interaction among individual graphenes in the graphene paper [16]. Thus, enhanced mechanical properties may be achieved.
 However, the disadvantage is that individual graphenes will suffer a decline in desirable intrinsic properties such as conductivity when compared with pristine graphenes no matter which reduction treatment is employed [17]. The Young’s modulus of the reduced GO is significantly smaller (about 0.25 TPa) than that of pristine graphene (1.0 TPa) [18]. These decreases will likely negatively affect the properties of the final graphene paper.
 Other disadvantages are that the productivity of this type of method is low and a lot of hazards are involved.
 Therefore, graphenes produced in this way are normally very expensive.
 In recent years, much cheaper graphene nanoplatelets that are directly exfoliated from natural graphite can be found on the market.
 It comes in the form of a stack of graphene layers which has a thickness of about 10 nm, and the size of the platelets can be controlled [19]. This GNP possesses similar properties to that of graphenes.
 However, another issue arises if such highly graphitic platelets are assembled to form graphene papers.
 Although the GNPs are very conductive and the intrinsic strength of graphene is retained, they are so crystalline and smooth that the platelets slip past one another because few defect sites and oxygen groups are available to create a strong adhesion between individual GNPs.
 Van der Waals forces cannot provide a strong enough interaction.
 A logical solution is to use a binder material to glue individual GNPs together to prepare the macroscopic papers, but the binder material has to be compatible with the graphenes that form the GNPs.
 Researchers have explored this issue and some materials show promise.
 Epoxy has been used for graphene-reinforced nanocomposites, or graphene papers [10, 20]. Even pristine graphenes (without being functionalized) exhibit satisfactory reinforcement in these composites [20], indicating good adhesion between the epoxy and graphenes.
 Therefore, it is reasonable to expect epoxy to bind well with graphenes to prepare graphene papers.
 However, it is hard to achieve a high graphene content in graphene paper because uncured epoxy resin is often viscous and the graphenes (or GNPs) have a high surface area but very low bulk density.
 Mixing these two when there is a high graphene loading becomes very difficult.
 In our practice, if the epoxy resin is diluted with a certain solvent in order to reduce viscosity, but it is very difficult to remove the solvent.
 The resulting epoxy loses at least 10% of its mechanical properties if a diluting solvent is used.
 The included graphenes may also hinder the polymerization reaction necessary for the epoxy to be fully cured since graphenes in this situation can be considered as impurities, especially at a high loading.
 Another solution is the use of a thermoplastic.
 Wu et al. studied the use of PEI for GNP papers and found very good improvement in modulus, electrical conductivity and thermal conductivity [2] when dichloromethane (methylene chloride) was used to dissolve the PEI solids and then binder-free GNP papers were impregnated in the solution.
 Unfortunately, dichloromethane is very volatile.
 After impregnation, this solvent evaporates extremely fast to form a PEI skin, resulting in difficulty controlling the GNP loading in the final paper.
 We have found that dimethylacetamide (DMAc) (melting point: 165°C) is easy to handle and control throughout the whole process, allowing the convenient fabrication of GNP papers with almost any GNP concentration (0 to nearly 100 wt%). In this study, the impacts of GNP loading and GNP size on the electrical and thermomechanical properties of graphene papers were investigated.
 Not only was the modulus enhanced significantly, but the damping behavior, indicated by tan δ and the loss modulus, was also improved substantially.
 The damping property of graphene-reinforced nanocomposites has not been reported much in publications.
 The significant damping behavior of the GNP paper due to the inclusion of graphenes observed in our research may open an avenue for further research into the application of using graphenes when a material’s capability to dissipate energy is needed.
'].
['##3.1. TGA Analysis Since GNP and PEI have different thermal stabilities [Figure 2 (a)], TGA can be used to determine the GNP concentration in the final PEIGNP composite film.
 Based on the residue of GNP, PEI and PEIGNP papers in the TGA test, the GNP contents were calculated to generate a calibration curve to guide the preparation of PEIGNP papers [Figure 2 (b)]. For a better comparison, low concentration composites consisting of 0, 5, and 10 wt% GNPs were mixed with the PEI1 in the PEI1/DMAc solution followed by precipitation in distilled water.
 The composite precipitates were dried in an oven at 190°C for 1 hr to remove the DMAc and then hotpressed to make composite films.
 Adhesive copper tapes of 6 mm wide were stuck to the surface of the PEIGNP paper (about 0.1 mm thick) then clamped in the impedance/resistance test.
 The distance between the two copper tapes was 15 mm.
 Impedance Z = Z0 cos ɸ + jZ0 sin ɸ where Z0 cos ɸ is resistance, jZ0 sin ɸ is capacitance, Z0 is magnitude, and ɸ is phase angle.
 Figure 3 displays the impedances (a) and phase angles (b) from the impedance tests of the samples.
 The 0 to 10 wt% composite film exhibited exceptionally larger impedances than the films with high GNP loadings.
 This indicates that the GNP papers (GNP content ≥ 59 wt%) made by filtration/hotpress possessed substantially low impedance compared with the composite films with low GNP concentrations (≤ 10 wt%). Therefore, the results indicate substantially high electrical conductivity for the papers of high GNP loadings.
 ##3.3. DMA Characterization ###3.3.1. Modulus, Glass Transition Temperature and Stress-Strain Figure 4 (a) displays the storage moduli of PEI, pure GNP paper and a representative PEIGNP paper.
 Figure 4 (b) summarizes how this modulus is affected by the GNP concentration in the paper.
 In the range of about 59 to 97 wt%, the GNPs dramatically enhanced the storage modulus.
 The maximum may be somewhere between 60 and 85 wt%. When the GNP loading is too high, there was not enough PEI as a binder material. As anticipated, the 100% GNP paper was weak because the interaction among GNPs only relied on the mechanical interlocking from the GNPs’ defects and the van der Waals forces.
 From the temperature sweep in the DMA characterization, interesting results can be extracted from the loss moduli, and examples are shown in Figure 5 (a). All results are summarized in Figure 5 (b). The loss modulus for the pure PEI or GNP film is 50-70 MPa from room temperature to 200°C while Figure 5 (b) shows that for the PEI1GNP papers with different high GNP concentrations, the increase in loss modulus is 2,000%-3,000%. By definition, loss modulus is the capacity of a certain amount of material to dissipate dynamic loading to heat which means the applied mechanical energy is lost as heat.
 Figure 6 reveals considerable increases in Tg for all PEIGNP papers in this study.
 However, the incorporation of GNPs into PEI caused a decline in tensile properties at high concentrations, as seen in Figures 7 (a) and (b). Since the concentrations of the GNPs are very high, the strain property of the composite paper is significantly affected by the GNPs, which are brittle and have low ductility.
 ###3.3.2. Damping The damping effect of graphenes on the nanocomposite has been discussed in some publications [2, 21]. Li et al. [21] reported about a 200-250% increase in damping in terms of tan δ (from 0.021 for pure PEI to ~0.07) by incorporating 3% silanized GNPs, but the pristine GNPs provided little enhancement to this property.
 Our study has indicated that pristine GNPs at high concentrations remarkably improve the damping behavior not only in terms of tan δ (Figure 8) but also in terms of loss modulus as discussed above.
 More than 500% increase in tan δ for high GNP papers over neat PEI and more than 100% over pure GNP paper were realized.
 It is similar to the energy-dissipation/absorption mechanism for polyurea, in which there is a co-existence of both soft domain and hard domain [22, 23]. Highly rigid graphenes should function as the hard domain while the soft domain should come from PEI, which is much softer than graphenes.
 Another possible reason for the enhanced damping effect from GNP-reinforced nanocomposite is that graphenes possess an excellent intrinsic damping property as proved by an experimental measurement [12]. This property should also be transmitted to the PEIGNP papers.
 Note that the fact that both the neat GNP paper and the neat PEI had much lower tan δ values compared with PEI1GNP papers, and this demonstrates the importance of heterogeneity, or the co-existence of both hard domain and soft domain, in damping behavior.
 ###3.3.3. Effect of PEI Molecular Weight and Graphene Size on Damping GNPs of different sizes and PEIs of different molecular weights were also used to investigate how the damping was affected.
 Figures 9 (a) and (b) compare the tan δ values of various GNP papers.
 There were some variations within each concentration group (97±0.4, 75±2.3 and 59±1.6 wt%). The damping capability clearly increases with the size of the graphene platelets.
 There are three possible reasons for this: (1) smaller graphene platelets retain the intrinsic damping property less because smaller platelets are broken from larger ones during production which causes further damage; (2) smaller graphene platelets move with the polymeric chains more easily upon dynamic loading.
 The collisions between the two types of molecules/atoms occur with reduced possibility and intensity; (3) the smaller platelets are more resistant to deformation than the larger ones.
 Figure 9 (b) shows the clear difference caused by different PEIs.
 PEI1 has a Mw of 47,000 g/mol while PEI2 has a Mw of 55,000 g/mol. It appears that the large molecules exhibited poorer damping in this investigation.
 When the GNP paper is subject to dynamic loading, PEI1’s molecules experience better collision interaction with carbon atoms in graphenes.
