“Gel-like” Mechanical Reinforcement in Polymer Nanocomposite MeltsWe critically explore the role of particle dispersion on the melt state mechanical properties of nanocomposites formed by mixing polystyrene homopolymers with polystyrene grafted silica nanoparticles. We selected this system since we previously showed that nanoparticle spatial distribution can be controlled through judicious choices of the brush and matrix parameters. Here we focus on the temporal evolution of the nanoparticle self-assembly dispersion state and its effect on mechanical reinforcement using rheology, electron microscopy, and the measurement of nanoscale particle dynamics using X-ray photon correlation spectroscopy. Nanoscale and macroscopic experiments show that a composite with percolating sheets of particles displays “gel-like” or solid-like mechanical behavior at lower particle loadings than one with uniform particle dispersion. This conclusion allows us to conjecture that mechanical reinforcement is primarily controlled by interparticle interactions (including those facilitated by the grafted chains) and that the matrix plays a relatively minor role. This statement has far-reaching consequences on the design of polymer nanocomposites with desired properties. ['It is now well appreciated that the state of nanoparticle (NP) dispersion in a polymer matrix crucially affects polymer nanocomposite (PNC) properties.
1-8 Here we focus specifically on the nanoscale relaxation and mechanical properties of PNCs in the melt state and howthey are affected by the spatial organization of the particles in the polymer matrix.
 Two points are stressed here.
 First, while there are many empirically derived strategies for achieving relatively good particle dispersion,4,7-10 the control of NP spatial organization (ranging from a relatively uniform to a highly extended clustered state) has been challenging.
 Second, the relationship between mechanical behavior and NP dispersion remains unresolved.
 Some prominent literature in the filledpolymer community suggests that large-scale agglomerates of NP give rise to mechanical reinforcement,11-18 an idea recently emphasized by Wang et al.19 In contrast, several workers have suggested that good dispersion is necessary for mechanical reinforcement in polymer NCs.
20-23 Simulations are also not persuasive on this point, and observations supporting both scenarios exist.
2,14-18,24,25 Our paper directly addresses this important issue based on our previous finding that spherical silica NPs, isotropically grafted with polystyrene layers, self-assemble into a range of superstructures when they are dispersed into a matrix of the corresponding homopolymer.
26 The key parameters governing this organization are the molecular masses of the grafted and matrix polymers and the chain grafting density on the functionalized particles.
 Theory and simulation both show that this assembly process is driven by the “microphase separation” between the inorganic particle core and the (organic) grafted chains; a process analogous to the self-assembly of block copolymers (and other amphiphiles). Figure 1a, from our previous work, illustrates the experimentally determined “morphology diagram” of these NP dispersions in the melt state.
 In addition to the extremes of good NP dispersion and extremely poor NP dispersion (“spheres”), we observe a range of other structures including short strings, sheets, and interconnected objects that can be obtained by tuning the matrix and brush chain molecular masses and the grafting density on the particles.
 Decorated NPs thus provide a facile means of controlling the spatial distribution of NPand a model systemfor investigating the relationship between NP dispersion and mechanical relaxation and other relaxation processes.
'].
 Our previous work suggests that NCs with the 44 kg/mol matrix result in an apparently time independent, but spatially uniform, NP dispersion.
 Figure 1b compares the time evolution of two nanocomposites, both with 5 mass % silica, mixed with the 44 and 150 kg/mol matrices, respectively.
 (Other silica loadings, annealed for time periods of 5 days each, are shown in Figure 3.) We first consider the lower molecular weight matrix, which corresponds to the left panel of Figure 1b.
 Careful examination of TEM micrographs, especially the annealing time of 1 day, shows that the particles form short strings, with maybe 3-4 NPs “catenated” into a chain.
 In this context it is important to note that the TEM images were taken over sample slices which are ≈100 nm in thickness.
 We thus use the 44 kg/mol matrix with the understanding that it has short strings of particles: however, these structures do not evolve temporally, and they are spatially uniform.
 In contrast, the NC with the high matrix molecular mass PS (150 kg/mol) apparently results in a strongly time-dependent particle morphology.
 For long enough times (1 day and longer) the particles form sheets which are ≈100 nm thick, but whose other two dimensions evolve with time.
 To determine that these objects are indeed sheets (and not strings, as seen in Figure 1b) and to determine their lateral sizes, we have taken 15 adjacent ≈100 nm thick slices after annealing the sample for 5 days.
 Evidently, these particles spontaneously assemble into sheets which are 2-5 particles (<100 nm) wide with lateral dimensions in the 1-10 μm range.
 Ultrasmall-angle X-ray scattering provides information on the size scale of the scattering objects from the fits of the unified model to the low-Q data (Figure 2) as shown in Table 1. Two comments are worthy of note here.
 It is apparent that the primary particle size (Rg ≈ 18.5 nm) and the power law exponent for the larger scale structures (≈2.7) are independent of particle loading.
 This power law exponent is consistent with surface fractals (d ∼ 2.6-2.9), but more importantly, the structures do not change their “shape” with increased loading.
 The particle size corresponding to the form factor can be converted to an effective diameter following the expression D=2Rg(5/3)1/2. This yields a D = 49 nm, which is much larger than the bare nanoparticle diameter of D=14 nm obtained from TEM, and from USAXS analysis on bare particles, as well as with lightly grafted particles.
 We tentatively rule this possibility out since the bare (or lightly decorated) particles should show more signs of agglomeration, but our past work demonstrates that the USAXS results on these specimens yield D=12 nm.
 Further, for particle loadings of 5 mass % and more we have to introduce a structure factor into our calculations, suggesting that the particles begin to “interfere” with each other in the scattering experiment.
 We performed linear oscillatory measurements on composites with various particle compositions (0.5, 1, 5, and 15 mass%particle) to explore the effect of nanoparticle density on the linear viscoelastic behavior of filled polymers.
 The linear oscillatory experiment (Figure 3b) shows the low-frequency plateaus in the storage and loss moduli at 15 mass%particles.
 Even the 5 mass % sample shows a hint of a low-frequency plateau, although this sample has a loss modulus which is larger than the storage modulus at low frequencies.
 A power law dependence of both storage and loss moduli on frequency are observed for the 1 mass%loading, suggesting that it is akin to a “critical gel”.30 Thus, the system with the nonuniform dispersion of particles gives rise to solid-like mechanical behavior even at low particle loadings.
 It is seen that even at low particle loading of 1%, particle clustering occurs (see TEM micrographs in Figure 3b). In contrast to these findings, the linear dynamic oscillatory measurements on the “miscible” blend (Figure 3a) also acquires solid-like rheological character but only for a loading of 15 mass % of particles.
 The start-up of steady shear flow conclusively shows that there are stress overshoots for particle loadings greater than 1 mass % in the sheet former composite (Figure 4b). The appearance of these stress overshoots does not depend on annealing time (see the nonlinear rheology data for composites with 5 mass % particles annealed for 0, 3, and 5 days in Figure 5b). Stress overshoots are normally associatedwith the breakdown of small clusters, their aggregates or other longlived structures.
 On the contrary, stress overshoots are only found for the 44 kg/mol composite comprised of 15 mass%of the NPs (Figures 4a and 5a). All other lower loadings show liquid-like behavior and hence no stress overshoots.
 Recent work on “soft glassy” (or reversible gel forming) systems have indicated a curious superexponential relaxation with β greater than unity; values of β close to 3/2 have often been reported.
31-35 This behavior has been attributed to the emergence of elasticity, as found in colloidal gels of particles with attractive interactions, pastes, and foams.
31-35 In these cases it is also found that the relaxation rate Γ ∼ 1/τ ∼ Q and that the systems age, meaning that τ increases with aging time.
 This phenomenology might be naturally expected in mechanically reinforced PNCs since these materials are expected to yield gel-like properties aswell.24,36-38 We note that superexponential relaxation of this kind is also typical of the fast dynamics observed in the collective intermediate scattering function of simulated polymer fluids at low temperatures, and presumably real materials, and in this context this behavior arises simply from the development of particle caging (with a transition from inertial particle dynamics to caged particle motions). In essence, the superexponential relaxation and the wave-vector dependence discussed above reflect the existence of correlated, persistent in-form, particle motion.
 XPCS is a particularly appropriate tool in this context since it samples wave-vector regimes [0.0027-0.021 A ° -1], which bracket the form factor peaks of our 14 nm silica particles (namely Q ≈ 0.015 A ° -1). Additionally, since the dominant X-ray contrast is between the silica particles and the polymer, we are predominantly sensitive to the collective dynamics of the particles.
 We first focus on the blend with the M = 150 kg/mol matrix which forms large NP sheets.
 Figure 6(1)c shows that this system is characterized by β ≈ 1.6 for all silica loadings considered, i.
, 0.5 mass % silica and higher, at all Q’s (see also Figure 7 for comparison of β as a function of particle mass fraction at a constant Q=0.0149 A ° -1). In addition, Figure 6(1) also shows that τ ∼ Q-1 and that the systems age, namely that the particle “velocity” [=1/(τQ)], which is independent of Q, decreases as a function of annealing time at 150 °C (Figure 6(1)b). Given the previous strong association of this type of dynamics with “soft solids”, these microscopic dynamics are consistent with our previous observations that these NCs exhibit a macroscopic gel rheology over a broad range of particle loadings.
 TheNCwith relativelywell-dispersed particles (Figures 6(2) and 7, maybe with short particle strings) also show solid-like behavior but only at large particle loadings.
 For example, the β is smaller than 1.5 below 5 mass%silica and only becomes equal to 1.6 for larger loadings.
 (β ≈ 0.6, as seen for the lowest loading, 0.5%, at large Q may be a reflection of the Rouse dynamics of the grafted polymer chains.
) Similarly, the “velocity” of the particles only becomes time dependent (“aging” behavior) for loadings larger than 5 mass % silica (Figure 6(2)b). Again, these findings are also consistent with the macroscale rheology experiments discussed above, implying a deep connection between the local and macroscale behavior.
 To understand these findings, inspired by literature ideas,39-42 we hypothesize that mechanical reinforcement results when the interactions between “particles” yield a percolated particle network.
 One fact that gives credence to this picture is the magnitude of stress overshoots seen for both the well-dispersed and sheetforming systems at 15 mass % silica.
 These numbers are comparable, even though the matrix molecular masses are different by a factor of ∼4, suggesting that the stress overshoot simply refers to the particles and the chains which are grafted on them.
 Our data for NCs with the 44 kg/mol homopolymer matrix closely approximate this limit.
 Table 2 shows the face-to-face distance, which is the calculated interparticle center-to-center distance minus the diameter of the particles, and is the space available for polymer chains to pervade.
 In addition, we also find that the distance between two particles, accounting for the presence of the polymer brush layer, that is we subtract 4 times the radius of gyration of the chains from the face-to-face distance.
) The last column of this table shows that the grafted polymer layers on two adjacent particles just begin to overlap at 5mass%loading, presumably permitting the formation of a percolated particle gel. This rough calculation is in nearly quantitative agreement with the X-ray and rheology experiments presented above, which showed that this “miscible” nanocomposite had interparticle “interference” only at this concentration of nanoparticles (and higher) and only showed solid behavior for large particle loadings.
 In contrast, the NC with the PS matrix of 150 kg/mol which forms sheets yields mechanical reinforcement at lower loadings than the material with uniform particle dispersion.
 This state is achieved by using particles with low grafted polymer coverage (0.01 chains/nm2 where the graft molecular mass is smaller than the matrix.
 The typical agglomerate sizes in these cases are less than 1 μm, and hence the particle interactions evidently do not “percolate” (spherical aggregates in Figure 1a). As expected, these materials do not show significant mechanical reinforcement (Figure 5c), emphasizing the importance of “percolating” domains of particles to obtain significant reinforcement when the particle concentration is not high.
