Effects of Modified Clay on the Morphology and Properties of PMMA/Clay Nanocomposites Synthesized by in Situ PolymerizationA new method has been developed to prepare exfoliated poly(methyl methacrylate)/clay nanocomposites by in situ polymerization of methyl methacrylate (MMA) in the presence of triethylaluminum (TEA)-modified clay. The dispersed behavior of the clay in the PMMA matrix is identified by using X-ray diffraction (XRD), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and UV/vis transmission spectroscopy. The PMMA/clay nanocomposites are found to retain over 80% transparency, important for optical applications. Compared to neat PMMA, all these nanocomposites show enhancement of glass transition temperature (Tg) and decomposition temperature. The storage modulus (E′) and tensile properties of the nanocomposites are also significantly enhanced by incorporating clay into the PMMA matrix and increased as the amount of clay increased. The tensile strength of nanocomposites is up to 70 MPa for 7.26 wt % clay content, and the tensile modulus shows a 20% higher value than that of neat PMMA. ['Poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) is a typical transparent amorphous polymer and has been widely used as an important material for plastic optical fibers as well as optical lenses.
 (1, 2) PMMA has several desirable properties such as good flexibility, high strength, and excellent dimension stability.
 However, poor heat resistance of PMMA cannot fulfill the current demands.
 To improve the heat resistance, preparation of nanocomposite is an effective way.
 Moreover, PMMA/clay nanocomposites offer potentials for reducing gas permeability, improving physical performance, and increasing heat resistance without significant reduction in the optical clarity.
 (3) Polymer/clay nanocomposites have greatly attracted the interest of chemists.
 (4) The efficiently dispersed clay in a polymer matrix can significantly improve the polymer’s physical and mechanical properties: a higher heat distortion temperature, an enhanced flame resistance, an increased modulus, better barrier properties, a reduced thermal expansion coefficient, and improved electronic and optical properties.
 (5) There are two distinct nanostructures identified in these nanocomposites, intercalated and exfoliated (or delaminated), (6) and the exfoliated nanostructure is more desirable than the intercalated one because of the stronger synergistic effects between polymer matrix and silicate layers.
 (7) However, it is still a challenging work to obtain the complete exfoliation of clays in polymer although many methods, including in situ polymerization, melt blending, and solution blending, have been used in the literature.
 (8) Among these methods, the in situ polymerization is a promising method for preparation of exfoliated nanocomposites.
 (9) Recently, radical-initiated MMA polymerization has been applied to prepare PMMA/clay nanocomposites (10) because it is insensitive to water, air, and other impurities.
 For example, MMA polymerization initiated with benzoyl peroxide (BPO) and 2,2′-azobis(isobutyronitrile) (AIBN) in the presence of organo-clay is one of the most widely used methods.
 However, coordination polymerization of MMA monomer is more effective to obtain highly oriented polymers with good thermal properties than the radical polymerization although the sensitivity of coordination polymerization to moisture and minute impurities inhibits its wide applications.
 Therefore, it is a challenging topic to solve the sensitivity problems in coordination polymerization.
 Ni(acac)2/MAO is an effective catalyst system for MMA polymerization, (11, 12) but the preparation of PMMA/clay nanocomposites with Ni(acac)2 has not yet been reported.
 In this work, the in situ polymerization method initiated with a coordination catalyst has been developed for the first time to prepare exfoliated PMMA/clay nanocomposites.
 This approach consists of anchoring the polymerization catalyst (Ni(acac)2) to the surfaces and/or into the interlayer of the clay and polymerizing the MMA in situ.
 The structures of the synthesized PMMA/clay nanocomposites have been investigated; the optical clarity, thermal stability, and mechanical properties of the PMMA/clay nanocomposites have also been discussed.
'].
['## Characterization of TEA-Modified MMT-k10 In order to retain the high activity of the coordination catalyst, modification of the clay is essential due to the sensitivity of the coordination polymerization to the adsorbed water molecules and surface hydroxyl groups of the silicate layers in the clay.
 Pristine MMT-k10 contains water of ∼4.9 wt % measured by TGA.
 (14) The water molecules absorbed on the surface of the MMT-k10 must be removed by dehydration at high temperature.
 The dehydrated MMT-k10 is then treated with TEA.
 As shown in the XRD pattern (Figure 1a), the pristine MMT-k10 shows a basal spacing of 0.99 nm at 2θ = 8.88° and a reflection peak at 2θ = 6.07°, corresponding to a distance of 1.45 nm which is attributed to most of the interlayer spaces are intercalated with water molecular.
 Coexistence of the two peaks in pristine MMT-k10 is due to the adsorbed water molecules which show only a shift of the basal spacing to higher values, and it indicates the nonuniform interlayer expansion.
 Dehydrating the pristine MMT-k10 leads to partial collapse of the interlays.
 The peak at 2θ = 6.07° completely disappears after the pristine MMT is treated at high temperature because adsorbed water inside the layers is removed, as shown in Figure 1b.
 Moreover, the intensity of the reflection at 2θ = 8.88° decreased, confirming a lower degree of order for the dehydrated MMT-k10. Figure 1c shows that the intensity of the basal peak along with the gallery distances increased from 0.99 nm (2θ = 8.88°) to 1.00 nm (2θ = 8.82°) after the dehydrated MMT-k10 is treated with TEA.
 It is known that (21) montmorillonite is produced from bentonite by treatment of HCl and H2SO4 at high temperature.
 The small change in the gallery distance indicates that only a few of TEA molecules reacted with the hydroxyl groups on the surfaces of clay layers, and the subsequent removal of ethane gas results in the intercalation of alkylaluminum [(C2H5)2Al−]. Together with these results, it indicates that TEA is not completely intercalated in the layers of clay.
 Figure 2 shows the IR spectra of (a) the pristine MMT-k10, (b) TEA-modified MMT-k10, and (c) THF-extracted PMMA/clay nanocomposites (Table 1, sample PMMA3). In the IR spectrum of pristine MMT-k10 (Figure 2a), the band at 3630 cm−1 is typical for smectites due to internal hydroxyl groups of clay minerals.
 The stretching vibration of water is observed at 3430 cm−1. The band at 1635 cm−1 is assigned to water deformation band.
 Si−O stretching and Al−O stretching are observed at 1040 and 570 cm−1, respectively.
 (16) In the spectrum of the TEA-modified MMT-k10 (Figure 2b), the C−H stretching bands are found at 2855 and 2950 cm−1, confirming the presence of ethyl group in the layers of the clay.
 Additionally, the weak −OH stretching band (3630 cm−1) and the weak band (1635 cm−1) derived from water molecule indicate that the hydroxyl groups between the interfaces had not completely reacted with the TEA.
 The proposed reaction process is presented in Scheme 1. ## Synthesis and Characterization of PMMA/Clay Nanocomposites After the TEA-modified MMT-k10 had been treated with the Ni(acac)2 catalyst, the MMA monomer and cocatalyst MAO were introduced to produce a series of PMMA/clay composites (Scheme 1). The experimental results are listed in Table 1. Under the same polymerization conditions, increasing the initial loading of the clay leads to increase in the clay contents in the final product, as shown in Table 1. It is possible to control the ratio between clay and PMMA to some extent by varying the polymerization time or initial clay loading; however, the establishment of any mathematical relationship is difficult at this stage of research.
 MMA conversion decreases from 81.1% to 67.3% with increase of the initial clay loading.
 The catalytic activity of Ni(acac)2/MAO can be retained even when the clay loading is as high as 0.50 g (from samples PMMA3 in Table 1). For comparison, pristine MMT-k10 (0.3 g) was used as a filler to prepare PMMA/clay composites at same polymerization conditions.
 However, the MMA conversion is only 31.0%. It indicates that dehydration and modification of the pristine MMT-k10 is an effective approach to retain high activity of the coordination catalyst.
 The extraction of PMMA from the PMMA/clay hybrid was carried out using hot THF for 48 h in a Soxhlet extractor.
 PMMA in the composites could only be partially extracted, although as high as 98.5 wt % of PMMA can be extracted from the neat polymer (Table 1, sample PMMA0). Furthermore, the amount of the extracted PMMA significantly decreases with the increase of the clay content in the PMMA/clay composites.
 The interaction between PMMA and silicate layer has been studied by FT-IR, as shown in Figure 2c.
 The IR spectrum of THF-extracted PMMA/clay composites shows a distinct absorption at 1730 cm−1 (C═O stretching) and 1300−1100 cm−1 (C−O stretching), which are the characteristic bands of PMMA.
 (17, 18) Furthermore, our experiments show that the PMMA extracted from the PMMA/clay nanocomposites and neat PMMA have higher molecular weight, and the molecular weight of PMMA increases gradually with the increase of clay contents.
 Glass transition temperature (Tg) and thermal decomposition temperature (Td) of the PMMA/clay nanocomposites obtained from DSC and TGA measurement are listed in Table 1. Neat PMMA exhibits Tg of PMMA around 121.5 °C, which is high than that synthesized by radical polymerization.
 (19) This is due to the difference in PMMA tacticity.
 The PMMA/clay nanocomposites exhibit an increasing endothermic trend in the range from 122.0 to 126.0 °C that increases as a function of the content of the clay.
 We have carried out the 13C NMR analyses of neat PMMA and the PMMA extracted from PMMA/clay nanocomposites under similar conditions, and the results are presented in Figure 3 and Table 1. According to the tacticity data, increases in the clay content have great impact on the PMMA tacticity.
 For the neat PMMA produced by Ni(acac)2 shows high syndiotactic fraction [rr] = 87%. However, introduction of clay decreased the syndiotacticity abruptly from 87% for neat PMMA to 76% for the PMMA−clay 7.26 wt % nanocomposite.
 Chung and co-workers (20) reported a similar tendency in tacticity for PMMA.
 As pure syndiotactic PMMA shows Tg up to 124 °C; (21) the Tg above it shown by PMMA nanocomposites with clay content 4.75 and 7.26 wt % is due to the interaction of PMMA chains with the clay layers.
 It is interesting to find high syndiotactic PMMA [(rr) = 87%] prepared by the Ni(acac)2/MAO system.
 However, a previous reference report (12) for same catalyst with MAO shows about 41.7% [rr] in resultant PMMA.
 (22) The temperature for 5% weight loss is defined as the thermal decomposition temperature (Td). (23) The thermal stability of the nanocomposites is much higher than that of the neat PMMA.
 The decomposition temperature of PMMA3, at 5% weight loss, is about 58 °C higher than that of neat PMMA.
 (24) In summary, the quick heat transmission can be prevented by the nanoscaled silicate layers which can lead to retarded decomposition of the PMMA and suspension of continuous decomposition of the nanocomposites.
 (25) ##Morphology of the PMMA/Clay Nanocomposites Figure 4 displays the XRD patterns of TEA-modified MMT-k10 (a) and a series of PMMA/clay composites with different clay contents (b−d). The d001 peak of the clay in the PMMA nanocomposites completely disappeared, indicating the formation of exfoliation structure in the nanocomposites.
 The absence of the (001) peak suggests that the d001 spacing between the layered silicates is intercalated to a spacing greater than the measurable range or clay layers are disorderly dispersed in the PMMA matrix.
 To further investigate the clay dispersion in the polymer matrix, TEM analysis was performed, as shown in Figure 5a,b.
 ##Optical Clarity of the PMMA/Clay Nanocomposite Membranes Figure 6 shows the UV−vis transmission spectra of the PMMA/clay nanocomposite membranes (100 µm) with different clay contents.
 Although the PMMA/clay nanocomposites show a slight decline in transmission in the visible light region with the increase of the clay content, the nanocomposites can still retain more than 80% transparency of the neat PMMA.
 (3) The high optical clarity of the nanocomposites primarily results from both the disorderly exfoliated morphology of clay layers and the efficient dispersion of clay platelets in the PMMA matrix.
 The temperature dependence of storage modulus (E′) and tan δ are shown in Figure 7a,b.
 For example, at 30 °C below the Tg, the storage moduli of PMMA/clay nanocomposites display 20−54% increases, and at 160 °C above the Tg, storage moduli are 10−30% higher than that of neat PMMA.
 (26) We believe that the efficiently dispersed exfoliated clay layers in the nanocomposites result in the restricted segmental motions at the organic−inorganic interface and stronger interactions between the clay layers and the polymer chains.
 The effects of clay on the mechanical tensile properties of the PMMA/clay nanocomposites are summarized in Figure 8. The relationship between the tensile strength of the nanocomposites and the clay content, as shown in Figure 8a, indicates the effectiveness of the exfoliated clay layers on reinforcing PMMA.
 The tensile strength of these nanocomposites increased from 52 to 71 MPa, which is much higher than that of the neat PMMA (40 MPa). Additionally, the tensile strength increase proportionally to the MMT-k10 content in the composites.
 As shown in Figure 8b, the tensile modulus of the nanocomposites increases gradually in the range from 1.32 to 1.54 GPa as a function of the clay contents, which is quite higher than that of the neat PMMA (1.28 GPa). The maximum value of the tensile modulus for the PMMA/clay nanocomposites is 20% higher than that of the neat PMMA.
 Lee and Jang (17) prepared PMMA/clay nanocomposites by emulsion polymerization using MMA and Na+-montmorillonite.
 The PMMA/MMT nanocomposites (10−50 wt % of MMT in the PMMA matrix) exhibited higher ultimate tensile strength and tensile modulus than the neat PMMA.
 (27) It showed that increasing MWNT contents decreased the tensile strength.
