Glass Transition and Relaxation Behavior of Epoxy NanocompositesWith advances in nanoscience and nanotechnology, there is increasing interest in polymer nanocomposites, both in scientific research and for engineering applications. Because of the small size of nanoparticles, the polymer–filler interface property becomes a dominant factor in determining the macroscopic material properties of the nanocomposites. The glass-transition behaviors of several epoxy nanocomposites have been investigated with modulated differential scanning calorimetry. The effect of the filler size, filler loading, and dispersion conditions of the nanofillers on the glass-transition temperature (Tg) have been studied. In comparison with their counterparts with micrometer-sized fillers, the nanocomposites show a Tg depression. For the determination of the reason for the Tg depression, the thermomechanical and dielectric relaxation processes of the silica nanocomposites have been investigated with dynamic mechanical analysis and dielectric analysis. The Tg depression is related to the enhanced polymer dynamics due to the extra free volume at the resin–filler interface. Keywords: composites; dielectric properties; glass transition; interfaces; nanoparticles; thermomechanical properties ['Inorganic fillers such as ceramics, carbon black, metals, and metal oxides have been incorporated into polymer materials for various purposes.
 The resultant organic–inorganic composite materials represent a new class of materials that combine desirable physical properties of both organic and inorganic components.
 These composites have been shown to undergo substantial improvements in mechanical properties such as the strength, modulus, and dimensional stability, permeability to gases, water, and hydrocarbons, thermal stability, flame retardancy, chemical resistance, and electrical, dielectric, optical, and magnetic properties.
 Because of the recent commercial availability of nanoparticles, there is increasing interest in polymer nanocomposites.
 It is well known that the composite properties can change with the dispersion state, geometric shape, surface properties, particle size, and particle size distribution.
 Nanocomposites show different properties than the bulk polymers and their counterparts with micrometer-sized fillers because of the small size of the filler and the corresponding increase in the surface area.
1,2 The effect of the nanofillers in polymer composites on the glass-transition behavior of the polymer matrix has been studied for different filler–resin composites.
 In some cases, increases in the glass-transition temperature (Tg) have been reported.
3–5 In other cases, decreases in Tg have been reported.
6 An initial increase in Tg followed by a Tg decrease with a higher filler loading was observed for poly(styrene butyl acrylate) latex/nano-ZnO composites.
7 In many cases, the dispersion and surface conditions of the nanoparticles play important roles in the changes in Tg.
6,7 A short-range, highly immobilized layer about 1 nm long develops near the surface of the fillers.
 In this interaction region of the polymer layer surrounding the particles, the conformational entropy and chain kinetics are significantly altered.
6 As the filler size enters the nanoregion, the volume fraction of the interaction region in the nanocomposites increases with the increasing interface area of the polymer and nanofillers.
 This becomes the basis for potentially tremendous changes in the nanocomposite properties.
 The motivation behind this work is to systematically investigate the Tg changes in epoxy nanocomposites with different nanofillers and to interpret the polymer relaxation behavior in terms of the polymer–nanoparticle interface properties.
'].
 The Tg’s of the silica composites with nanometer- and micrometer-sized fillers are shown in Figure 1. The micrometer-sized filler did not have a significant effect on Tg of the composites, whereas the nanofiller had an appreciable impact.
 In comparison with the control sample, the 40 wt % silica nanocomposite showed a Tg depression by almost 30 °C.
 As shown in Figure 2, Tg’s of the silver nanocomposites were about 20 °C lower than those of the micrometer-sized silver composites, decreasing as the filler loading increased.
 Figure 3 shows Tg’s of the aluminum composites.
 Carbon black is known to have a very small primary particle size (1–50 nm), and it easily agglomerates to form large secondary clusters.
 As shown in Figure 4, the sample with the shortest duration of sonication had a Tg comparable to or even higher than that of the control sample.
 As shown in Figure 1, a significant Tg depression in the silica nanocomposites was observed, especially at high filler loadings.
 The fillers were heated under air from room temperature to 800 °C at a ramping rate of 20 °C/min.
 Figure 5 shows the TGA diagram of these two fillers.
 2 wt %) was likely due to the adsorbed moisture.
 The same fillers were dried at 200 °C for 6 h, and the TGA diagram of the dried nanofillers appeared to be the same as that of the undried ones.
 4 wt %) at 500 °C, which might be due to the chemically bonded water and residual organics, typically methanol or ethanol, from the sol– gel process of the nanosilica synthesis.
 Therefore, the residual organics and bonded water tended to remain at the filler surface even after the polymer composite was cured at a temperature lower than 200 °C.
 The curing profiles of the control sample (blank epoxy resin), the silica nanocomposite, and the micrometer-sized silica composite are shown in Figure 6. The incorporation of the nanometerand micrometer-sized silica did not seem to interfere with the epoxy curing.
 The Tg’s of the three samples were measured during the second scan, and the results are listed in Figure 7. As expected from the previous results, the micrometer-sized fillers did not influence Tg of the resin, whereas the nanofiller reduced Tg significantly.
 Figure 8 shows the dynamic moduli of the three samples.
 There was a significant difference in the peak of the loss modulus around 150 °C, which signified the largescale cooperative segmental motion of the polymeric molecules, which is typically called the glass transition.
 There is another peak of the loss modulus around -50 °C, which is usually called the sub-Tg transition or relaxation.
 The popular crankshaft mechanism involves restricted motion of the main chain requiring at least five consecutive bonds8 and is not likely to be the case for an epoxy– anhydride network because of the high crosslinking density.
 Figures 9 and 10 show the DEA results for the control sample and the silica nanocomposite.
9 Through curve shifting, master curves were obtained for the three samples at a reference temperature of 150 °C, as shown in Figure 11. For the entire frequency range, the nanocomposite possessed a much higher loss factor than the other two samples.
 At a low-frequency range (<102 Hz), the loss factor of the micrometer-sized-silica-filled composite appeared to be higher than that of the control sample but still lower than that of the nanocomposite.
 1–10 Hz), whereas the loss peak of the nanocomposite occurred at a much higher frequency (and a lower temperature by the TTS principle). The di- Molecular dynamic simulations of the polymer melts in the presence of nanoparticles have shown that the dynamics of the polymer melts can be influenced by the polymer–nanoparticle interactions.
11 Strongly attractive polymer–nanoparticle interactions slow the dynamics with respect to those of a pure polymer melt, whereas nonattractive interactions enhance the dynamics.
