DC breakdown strength of crosslinked polyethylene based nanocomposites at different temperaturesPolyethylene based nanocomposites have been widely researched for being potential insulating materials in high voltage DC equipment. One of their key properties is the enhanced DC breakdown strength (E b-DC ). For a long time, the E b-DC of polyethylene nanocomposites has been attributed to the deep charge traps located at the interphase region between the nanofiller and polymer matrix. In this work, we prepared XLPE/Al(OH) 3 nanocomposites with 0.1 to 3 wt% nano-Al(OH) 3 and studied their E b-DC at 20 to 90 °C. The results show that the XLPE/Al(OH) 3 nanocomposites possess significantly increased E b-DC , although having a large amount of shallow charge traps, and more likely causing homocharge injection. The results of breakdown tests show that E b-DC first increases and then decreases at 20 to 70 °C with increasing nanofiller while it shows a totally opposite trend at 90 °C. E b-DC decreases dramatically with increasing temperature, a crossover phenomenon of E b-DC appears at about 80 °C. The elastic modulus of XLPE/Al(OH)3 at different temperatures was obtained and it shows a similar trend with E b-DC . Therefore, the mechanical properties influenced by morphology and space charge properties modulated by charge trap characteristics were analyzed to jointly determine the E b-DC of XLPE/Al(OH) 3 nanocomposites at different temperatures. [' Nanocomposite dielectrics have become the third generation of high-voltage insulating material. With the development of DC transmission technology, more and more high-voltage DC (HVDC) field environments require insulating materials with excellent DC insulation performance.
 The topic of polymer based nanocomposite dielectrics is an active area of research.
 One of the most attractive properties of nanocomposite insulating materials is the enhanced DC breakdown strength (Eb−DC). For example, crosslinked polyethylene (XLPE) based nanocomposites can be used in HVDC power cable.
 Literature reported the enhanced Eb−DC of low-density polyethylene (LDPE) or XLPE based nanocomposites, such as the incorporation of MgO [1], SiO2[2], TiO2 [3] and Al2O3 [4]. Due to the diversity and inconsistency of the sample preparation process, it is also reported that the Eb−DC of the nanocomposite dielectric has not changed significantly or even decreased [5]. Nevertheless, it can be still believed that improving the electrical breakdown characteristics in a nanocomposite manner is a very effective way.
  To date, the role of the interphase region and the state of nanofiller dispersion has been assumed to be a pivotal reason for the improved breakdown strength of nanocomposites [3], [6], [7]. As reported, the introduction of inorganic metal oxide nanoparticles and some other kinds of nanofiller often introduced into the composites with deep traps having different energy levels, and the high Eb−DC of nanocomposites is believed to be modulated by the trap characteristics [8]. The deep charge traps can suppress homocharge injection from the electrodes under DC filed and inhibit charge transport in the bulk [4], [9]–[10][11][12]. On the contrary, whether Eb−DC will degrade after introducing shallow traps by nanofiller doping has not been demonstrated, making the conclusion incomplete.
 Besides, it should also attach importance to the influence of morphology change caused by nanofiller incorporation.
  The nanofiller incorporation not only determines the charge trap characteristics of the interphase region by choosing the type, the content and the surface modification method of nanofiller, but also influences the morphology of polymer matrix, since these polymer dielectrics including the semi-crystalline polymer, such as polyethylene [13]. For example, it was reported that Eb−DC of polyethylene and its nanocomposites could also be increased by modulating the morphology, such as change of crystallization process or stretching to cause crystal orientation [14], [15]. Considering these multiple factors, the enhanced Eb−DC becomes more complicated and needs more extensive research.
  Therefore, based on the current research status, an attempt has been made to introduce relatively shallow charge traps by the addition of hydroxide nanoparticles, instead of selecting metal oxide nanoparticles, to study the Eb−DC of nanocomposites in this paper.
 XLPE/Al(OH)3 nanocomposites have been prepared.
 Their DC breakdown properties at different temperatures, trap characteristics and morphology, such as space charge curves, elastic modulus, bulk trap distribution, and crystallinity, are obtained and analyzed in this work.
 '].
['##3.1 FTIR Spectra  The FTIR spectra of XLPE and XLPE/Al(OH)3 nanocomposites were obtained to verify the successful preparation of samples.
 As shown in Figure 2, the peaks at 720, 1471, 2856, and 2937 cm−1 are the characteristics peaks of polyethylene.
  The major difference between samples is reflected in peaks at 3300, 1074 and 400–600 cm−1. The broad peaks centered around 3300 cm−1 represent hydroxyl (-OH) and peaks around 400–600 cm−1 represent aluminum oxide bond (Al-O). These peaks reflect the content of nano-Al(OH)3 filler.
 The peak at 1074 cm−1 represents the vibration of Si-O which is contained within the coupling agent, hence the effect of surface modification of nano-Al(OH)3 nanoparticles was demonstrated.
  ##3.2 DC Breakdown Properties  The Eb−DC (scale parameter of Weibull breakdown strength with failure probability at 63.2%) of XLPE and XLPE/Al(OH)3 nanocomposites were obtained under negative DC voltage at four temperatures from 20 to 90°C.
 As shown in Figure 3, the Eb−DC decreased dramatically with the increasing temperature.
 The Eb−DC of Al-0.1 sample has the strongest dependence on temperature, while the Al-3 sample shows the weakest dependence.
 A crossover phenomenon between Eb−DC of different samples occurs at about 80°C.
  As the data symbols in Figure 3 are too dense, the error bars of Eb−DC indicating the standard deviation were added in Figure 4. Figure 4 presents the effect of nano-Al(OH)3 content on Eb−DC.
 The Eb−DC data of XLPE/Al(OH)3 nanocomposites at 20 to 70°C showed in Figure 4 is the usual trend.
 Eb−DC increases firstly and then decreases with the increasing nano-Al(OH)3 content.
 However, Eb−DC shows a totally opposite trend at 90°C, then the crossover occurs.
  ##3.3 Space Charge Characteristics  The space charge distributions of XLPE, Al-0.1, and Al-0.5 at 20°C under 40 kV/mm are shown in Figure 5. It can be seen that homocharge injection occurs in all of the samples, although the voltage is not applied for a long time.
 In Al-0.1 and Al-0.5, homocharge injection enhances and happens in both electrodes.
 Homocharge injection from electrodes to XLPE becomes easier after introducing nano-Al(OH)3.  The space charge properties such as charge injection and accumulation, as well as charge transport in the bulk, are directly related to the trap characteristics.
 Figure 6 shows the TSDC curves of XLPE, Al-0.1, and Al-0.5. The curves can be divided into two parts, peaks at about −43°C reflect shallow traps and peaks at temperatures above 50°C indicate relatively deep traps.
 Shallow trap density increases significantly with the incorporation of nano-Al(OH)3. Therefore, the shallow traps introduced by the nanofiller doping is considered to be the cause of the aggravated homocharge injection.
  ##3.4 Mechanical Property  The mechanical property of XLPE and XLPE/Al(OH)3 nanocomposites were tested over a wide temperature range.
 Figure 7 shows the elastic modulus at different temperatures.
 It was proved that the introduction of nano-Al(OH)3 changed the elastic modulus of crosslinked polyethylene to varying degrees.
 This change is related to nano-Al(OH)3 content and temperature.
 First, the elastic modulus at lower temperature is remarkably increased with the nanoparticle content ranging from 0.1 to 3 wt%. However, the modulus at higher temperatures is reduced, and the modulus curve shows an intersection near 80°C.
 Below 80 °C, Al-0.1 has the highest elastic modulus, which is 920.8 MPa at 20°C, and the elastic modulus of nanocomposite samples declined slightly with increasing nanoparticle content.
 Above 80°C, Al-0.1 has the lowest elastic modulus, which is 68.9 MPa at 90°C, and the elastic modulus of nanocomposite samples enhanced with increasing nano-Al(OH)3 content.
 Therefore, it can be illustrated that space charge characteristics and mechanical properties both regulate the DC breakdown characteristics of XLPE/Al(OH)3 nanocomposites.
 It can be seen that the elastic modulus of Al-0.1 sample at temperature higher than 90°C was very low.
 Therefore, the Al-0.1 sample may soften at high temperatures, which could affect the TSC test data due to the pressure of the electrodes.
 This may be the reason why there is a large difference of the currents between XLPE and Al-0.1 at the temperatures around 90°C as shown in Figure 6. ##3.5 Morphology Analysis  The morphology of polyethylene controls its physical properties, including charge transport characteristics [18]. The crosslinked polyethylene used as cable insulating materials is not completely crosslinked and it consists of ordered crystalline lamellar ribbons to form spherulites which have diameters of several microns or more than 10μm.
 The DSC curves of all samples are shown in Figure 8. Melting enthalpy of XLPE and XLPE/Al(OH)3 samples, corresponding to the melting peak area, were integrated and they were around 100 J/g with a minor change.
 Therefore, crystallinity, which can be calculated by the melting enthalpy just also has minor change by incorporation of slight of nano-Al(OH)3. Besides, curves in Figure 8 show a slight change in the melting peaks that can not be ignored.
 As shown in the inset of Figure 8, the melting peak of XLPE sample is at about 112°C, and the melting peaks of Al-0.1 to Al-3 decrease by 1 to 2°C.
 The slight change of melting process reflects the change in morphology of the crosslinked polyethylene caused by nano-Al(OH)3 doping.
 Therefore, the abnormal trend of Eb−DC at 90°C was assumed to be related to the change of morphology.
