Electrical behavior of low density polyethylene containing an inhomogeneous distribution of ZnO nanoparticlesZnO nanoparticles were mixed with low density polyethylene (LDPE) to form nanocomposites. The distribution of ZnO filler particles was controlled by changing the mixing method, and the effects of controlled inhomogeneous distribution on the electrical resistivity were measured. The percolation limit in the composites with controlled inhomogeneity decreased significantly compared to that of the analogous nanocomposites with uniform filler distributions, and the resistivity of the filled composites decreased as a function of applied field strength, exhibiting a nonlinear I–V relationship. The nonlinearity increased with ZnO filler concentration. ['Polymer nanocomposites have been shown to have many advantageous properties primarily due to the small size and large surface area of the nanofillers (fillers with at least one dimension less than 100 nm) [1, 2]. The small filler size leads to electrical, optical, and mechanical properties different from those of traditional composites [2, 3], partly because the fillers are smaller defects than traditional fillers preventing early electrical and mechanical failure.
 For example, Henk et al. [4] reported increased electrical discharge endurance with silica nanoparticles in epoxy resin.
 Ash et al. [5] found a significant increase in ductility and a decrease in glass transition temperature for PMMA filled with alumina nanoparticles.
 The changes in the properties caused by the introduction of nanoparticle fillers are strongly controlled by the dispersion state of the filler particles in the polymer matrix.
 Achieving a good dispersion of the fillers has been one of the major challenges in the processing of polymer nanocomposites.
 Agglomeration frequently limits the improvements in properties attained by employing nanoparticles as fillers [6]. While a good dispersion is critical, it is not always apparent that the distribution of fillers needs to be uniform throughout the matrix.
 Well dispersed, but nonuniformly distributed, filler particles may lead to optimized properties.
 In this paper, we show that the resistivity has a higher field dependence in the composites with inhomogeneous filler distributions.
 Another advantage of nanofillers is that percolation can be achieved at lower volume fractions [7]. The resistivity of the composite drops abruptly as the filler volume fraction increases above the percolation limit [8]. Because of the cost of fillers and the possible degradation they may cause in other properties [9], there is interest in decreasing the volume fraction of fillers.
 We showed previously that the percolation limit of composites with uniform filler distribution changes as the size of the filler particles decreases [7]. The percolation limit also decreases when the filler particles have a high aspect ratio [10]. Further decrease of the percolation limit by creating mixed regions of high and low filler concentration due to an inhomogeneous filler distribution is demonstrated in the present work.
 A lower percolation limit due to inhomogeneous distribution of carbon black particles in a polymer matrix has been reported by Wycisk et al. [11]. While carbon black is typically used to decrease the resistivity of composites, in the present work, ZnO semiconductor particles were introduced to make composites with resistivity values between those of conducting and insulating polymers.
 Resistivity values of such magnitudes are required for field grading materials used in high voltage applications.
 Field grading materials also require nonlinear behavior, hence ZnO with its nonlinear electrical behavior [12] is a suitable material for fillers.
 While the change in percolation limit is not surprising in these composites, what is surprising is the nonlinearity comparable to or higher than pure ZnO that was achieved with composites containing only a small volume fraction of ZnO nanoparticles.
 '].
 1a and b, respectively.
 Figure 1a shows that the particles are well dispersed and homogeneously distributed in the matrix.
 1b shows particles that are inhomogeneously distributed.
 1b). At a low filler concentration, the ZnO particles could not completely cover the surfaces of the LDPE particles and the LDPE cores join to form a continuous matrix phase leaving ZnO nanoparticles scattered in lumps.
 2. For comparison, the resistivities of specimens with homogeneous micron-size (300 nm) and nano-size (49 nm, 24 nm) filler distributions, that was reported in Ref.
 [7], are also shown in Fig.
 2. The percolation limit decreases as the particle size decreases.
 Electron tunneling begins to occur as the interparticle spacing decreases below ~40 nm [7]. Because the interparticle spacing decreases with decreasing particle size at a given volume fraction, the percolation onset should occur at a lower volume fraction as the particle size decreases.
 3. In the composite with a homogeneous distribution of filler particles, electrons can tunnel between particles through thin layers of the insulating matrix and this tunneling occurs throughout the entire specimen.
 The nonlinearity is often described using a, which is defined as the slope of the current–voltage (I–V) relationship curve in log scale, ln(ΔI)/ln(ΔV). The a of the pure ZnO nanoparticles used in this work was measured to be 2.6 at an applied electric field strength of 10 kV/cm (Fig.
 4a). Figure 4b exhibits the nonlinear electrical resistivity of the nanocomposites with inhomogeneous filler distribution as a function of applied electric field strength.
 While LDPE does not exhibit any noticeable nonlinearity (α ≈ 1) in the field strength range shown in Fig.
 4, the nanocomposites exhibit increasing nonlinearity with increasing filler concentration.
 At a volume fraction of about 0.04, a at 10 kV/ cm is higher than that of ZnO.
 Therefore, the nonlinearity of the composite is dominated by the nonlinearity of the tunneling conduction mechanism between the particles [7] over the thin insulating polymer layers.
