Highly Conductive Poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA)-Reduced Graphene Oxide Composite Prepared by Self-Assembly of PMMA Latex and Graphene Oxide through Electrostatic Interaction We report a simple, environmentally friendly approach for preparing highly conductive poly(methyl methacrylate)–reduced graphene oxide (PMMA-RGO) composites by self-assembly of positively charged PMMA latex particles and negatively charged graphene oxide sheets through electrostatic interactions, followed by hydrazine reduction. The PMMA latex was prepared by surfactant-free emulsion polymerization using a cationic free radical initiator, which created the positive charges on the surface of the PMMA particle. By mixing PMMA latex with a graphene oxide dispersion, positively charged PMMA particles easily assembled with negatively charged graphene oxide sheets through electrostatic interaction. The obtained PMMA-RGO exhibited excellent electrical properties with a percolation threshold as low as 0.16 vol % and an electrical conductivity of 64 S/m at only 2.7 vol %. Moreover, the thermomechanical properties of PMMA-RGO were also significantly improved. The storage modulus of PMMA-RGO increased by about 30% at 4.0 wt % RGO at room temperature while the glass transition temperature of PMMA-RGO increased 15 °C at only 0.5 wt % RGO. KEYWORDS: PMMA reduced graphene oxide composite hydrazine self-assembly latex colloidal blending ['Graphene, a monolayer of sp2-hybridized carbon atoms arranged in a two-dimensional lattice, has attracted great attention in recent years owing to its outstanding mechanical, thermal, and electrical properties as well as large surface area.
 (1-3) Thus, graphene has been regarded as an ideal nanofiller for improving mechanical, electrical, thermal, and gas barrier properties of polymers.
 (4-8) The polymer–graphene nanocomposite has great potential for wide range of applications such as reinforced materials, flame retardant, electronic devices, electrostatic charge dissipation, electromagnetic interference shielding, and packaging.
 (4, 5) So far, various techniques have been developed for producing graphene including micromechanical cleavage, chemical vapor deposition, liquid-phase exfoliation of graphite, and reduction of graphene oxide by chemical reducing agents and thermal treatment.
 (2) Among these, the reduction of graphene oxide is considered as a large-scale method which is suitable for the production of graphene for use as a nanofiller for polymer nanocomposites.
 (2, 4-8) However, the key challenge in preparation and processing bulk-quantity graphene sheets by chemical reduction of graphene oxide is the irreversible aggregation of reduced graphene oxide (RGO). (9) RGO has very low dispersibility in organic solvents, (10-12) which is a major obstacle in the preparation of polymer–RGO composites by solution blending since most engineering polymers are soluble in organic solvents.
 (5, 6, 12) Colloidal blending based on latex technology has been widely used to prepare polymer–CNT nanocomposites by mixing polymer latex with a CNT aqueous dispersion.
 (13-17) In this technique, the polymer latex particles create excluded volume and essentially push nanofiller particles into the interstitial space between them, dramatically reducing the space available for the filler to form a segregated conductive network.
 Colloidal blending was recently applied to prepare polymer–RGO composites with various kinds of polymers such as polystyrene, polycarbonate, and poly (styrene-co-acrylonitrile). (18-20) The polymer–RGO composites prepared by latex technology exhibited not only lower percolation threshold but also greater electrical conductivity compared to polymer–RGO composites prepared by solution blending due to the formation of a segregated network of RGO in the polymer matrix.
 (20) However, one of the disadvantages of this approach is using a large amount of surfactant to disperse the polymer and RGO in the aqueous phase.
 The usage of a large amount of surfactant is undesirable due to the fact that the surfactant, a nonconductive material, absorbs onto the surface of the RGO sheets and likely limits the electron transport of the RGO sheet junctions in the final composite.
 (18) Another disadvantage of latex technology is that the freeze-drying technique is usually used to prepare a bulk amount of composite instead of conventional filtration and drying, because conductive filler and the polymer particles easily separate during the filtration process.
 (14-16, 18) Although freeze-drying is an effective method to prevent the separation of the conductive filler and the polymer particles, it requires complicated equipment, high cost, and time, and it also cannot remove the surfactant dissolved in the supernatant as in the filtration process.
 It is well-known that the graphene oxide (GO) and RGO sheets are highly negatively charged when dispersed in an aqueous solution, especially in an alkaline solution, due to the ionization of the phenolic hydroxyl and carboxylic acid groups.
 (21, 22) Taking advantage of this property, the self-assembly of negatively charged RGO with positively charged MWCNT or polymer particles has been performed to produce graphene-based hybrid nanomaterials.
 (22-24) Although RGO can be dispersed in an aqueous solution, the low concentration of RGO is not appropriate for preparation of polymer–RGO composites in bulk production.
 In this paper, we report a new approach to prepare poly(methyl methacrylate)–RGO composites (PMMA-RGO) by self-assembly of PMMA latex particles and graphene oxide sheets through electrostatic interaction, followed by hydrazine reduction of graphene oxide.
 The PMMA latex was prepared by surfactant-free emulsion polymerization using a cationic free radical initiator, which created the positive charges on the surface of the PMMA particle.
 Graphene oxide dispersion was used instead of RGO dispersion to avoid using surfactant.
 By mixing PMMA latex with a graphene oxide dispersion, positively charged PMMA particles easily assembled with negatively charged graphene oxide sheets through the electrostatic interaction.
 The obtained PMMA-RGO composite exhibited not only very low percolation threshold and high electrical conductivity but also great improvement in thermal and mechanical properties.
'].
['##Self-Assembly of PMMA Latex Particle and GO through Electrostatic Interaction The preparation of a PMMA-RGO composite by self-assembly of PMMA latex and graphene oxide is illustrated in Figure 1a.
 The zeta potential of the PMMA latex was 34.9 mV, indicating the PMMA latex particle was highly positively charged.
 (21) The zeta potential of the graphene oxide dispersion was −43.4 mV.
 By gradually adding PMMA latex into the graphene oxide dispersion, coagulation was observed, indicating that the PMMA latex particles and graphene oxide sheets were assembled with each other due to the opposite charges, Figure 1b.
 Although the size of PMMA latex particles was approximately 200 nm (Figure 2a), attempts to filter the PMMA-GO suspension with 1.0 μm pore size cellulose filter paper resulted in clear filtrate, implying that the PMMA latex particles and graphene oxide sheets were tightly assembled.
 After hydrazine reduction, the PMMA-RGO was precipitated due to the aggregation of the RGO sheets, and it was easily filtered with 6.0 μm pore size cellulose filter paper.
 As seen in the PMMA-RGO vial of Figure 1b, the supernatant was clear, implying full assembly and precipitation of PMMA particles with RGO sheets.
 ## Morphologies of PMMA-RGO Composites The morphologies of PMMA and PMMA-RGO composites characterized by SEM are shown in Figure 2. PMMA particles are spherical and show a monodistribution with a particle size of approximately 200 nm.
 RGO sheets had lateral sizes varying from a few to 10 μm (Figure S1, Supporting Information), (25) much larger than the size of the PMMA particle, allowing one RGO sheet to interpose itself between several PMMA particles.
 As seen in Figure 2b–d, the RGO sheets wrapping the PMMA particles connected with each other to form a conductive RGO network in the interstitial space between PMMA particles.
 The dispersion of RGO in the PMMA matrix in compression molded samples was characterized by SEM imaging in charge contrast mode (Figure 3). Because of the different capacity for charge transport in the conductive RGO and insulating PMMA matrix, the secondary electron yield is enriched at the location of the RGO, which results in the contrast between the RGO sheets and the PMMA matrix.
 (16) SEM images of PMMA-RGO show clearly that crumpled and wrinkled RGO sheets were uniformly distributed in the PMMA matrix and the density of RGO proportionally increased with RGO loading.
 It is interesting to note that RGO sheets were densely observed even at an RGO loading as low as 1.0 wt %, and these sheets connected with each other to create a conducting network, leading to the expectation of a highly conductive material. ## Properties of PMMA-RGO Composites Electrical conductivity is one of the most valuable properties of RGO.
 By incorporating a small amount of RGO into polymer matrix, the electrical conductivity of the composite can increase over 1010 times compared to the parent polymer.
 (18, 19, 27, 29) Figure 4 exhibits the electrical conductivity of PMMA-RGO as function of RGO volume fraction at room temperature, demonstrating percolation behavior.
 An abrupt increase in electrical conductivity is obtained for the composites when the RGO loading attains about 0.16 vol %, indicating the percolation threshold for formation of a conductive RGO network in the PMMA matrix is reached.
 At 0.6 vol %, the electrical conductivity of PMMA-RGO exceeded 1 S/m, which is a sufficient level of conductivity for many electrical applications including electromagnetic interference, (27, 30) whereas at 1.0 vol % the conductivity was more than 10 S/m.
 Subsequent increases in RGO loading above 1.0 vol % yield a moderate rise in conductivity.
 The maximum conductivity of about 64 S/m was achieved with an RGO loading of 2.7 vol %. The electrical conductivity of the PMMA-RGO composite in comparison to those of other polymer–graphene composites is shown in Table 1. The percolation threshold of PMMA-RGO is only 0.16 vol %, which is comparative to the most lowest percolation threshold of polymer–graphene composites reported.
 The thermal stability of PMMA-RGO composites characterized in nonoxidative conditions is shown in Figure 5. The onset decomposition temperature of the composite increased about 10 °C at 1.0 wt % RGO compared to neat PMMA and then slightly decreased with increasing RGO loading.
 (5, 32) Owing to their excellent mechanical strength and very high aspect ratio, RGO fillers have been widely reported to improve the mechanical properties of polymer composites relative to the host polymer.
 (5-7, 19, 28, 29) By incorporation of RGO into a polymer matrix, RGO acts as the primary load-bearing component of polymer nanocomposite, leading to the enhancement in mechanical properties.
 (5, 7) The mechanical properties of the PMMA-RGO characterized by DMA are shown in Figure 6. It is obvious that the addition of RGO into the PMMA matrix provides a significant enhancement in the storage modulus in both glassy and rubbery regions.
 Figure 5a,b shows that the storage modulus gradually increased with RGO loading and temperature.
 At room temperature, the storage modulus increased about 30% at 4 0.0 wt % while, in the rubbery region, a dramatic increase in storage modulus of approximately 5000% was observed at the same RGO loading.
 (33) Figure 6c shows the damping tan δ curves of PMMA-RGO composites as function of temperature, from which one can see that the loss factor notably decreased with increasing RGO loading.
 (34) Furthermore, the glass transition temperature (Tg) of PMMA-RGO determined by the maximum peak value of the tan δ peak significantly increased, i.
, about 15 °C at only 0.5 wt %. However, Tg did not increase with further increasing RGO loading.
 The strong interfacial interaction between RGO and the PMMA matrix was confirmed by SEM images of morphologies of fresh-fractured surface of PMMA and PMMA-RGO (Figures 7 and S3Supporting Information). Figure 7 reveals large differences in the morphology of the fresh-fractured surface of PMMA and PMMA-RGO.
 The strong interaction between PMMA and RGO can be explained by the combination of hydrogen bonds which may form between the remaining hydroxyl groups of RGO and the carbonyl group of PMMA (35) and electrostatic interaction between negatively charged oxygen functional groups of RGO and positively charged amine groups on the head of the PMMA chain.
