Incorporation of surface modified graphene nanoplatelets for development of shape memory PLA nanocomposite In this study, a temperature sensitive shape memory polymer (SMP) system based on polylactic acid (PLA) has been developed and the effect of graphene nanoplatelets (GNPs) on the shape memory properties was evaluated. Dispersion of GNPs in PLA was improved with the aid of a zwitterionic surfactant. X-ray diffraction (XRD) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) showed that the surface modified graphene nanoplatelets (SMGNPs) were exfoliated and homogenously dispersed in the PLA matrix due to enhancement of the polymer-graphene interaction. Mechanical properties of the samples namely stiffness and elasticity were increased upon incorporation of graphene nanoplatelets accompanied by their good dispersion in the PLA matrix. Furthermore, differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) revealed that the nucleation effect of graphene promote the crystallization and noticeably enhanced the degree of crystallinity. Finally, prominent mechanical properties along with high degree of crystallization due to fine dispersion of surface modified graphenes, resulted in drastic improvement in shape memory performance. Keywords: Smart polymers, Shape memory polymers, Graphene, PLA, Crystallization ['During the past decades, shape memory polymers (SMPs) have received increasing attention because of their special and unique applications in medical, electronics, high-tech industries as well as daily life.
 Having properties such as low density, suitable price, high rate of shape recovery, and ease of processing, which are superior to those of their counterpart shape memory alloys, SMPs are a good choice for developing novel intelligent polymers [1-3]. Theoretically, shape memory polymers should have reversible phase and a fixed phase in their molecular structure in order to have shape memory properties.
 Cross-linked points, the crystalline phase and also chain entanglements can play the role of fixed structures [4]. SMPs present many potential technical advantages over conventional shape memory alloys however their low degree of stress recovery originating from their low stiffness is their most significant drawback [5].Using high modulus fillers, especially nanoscale inorganic fillers, not only tailor the stiffness and mechanical properties of SMPs, but also serve as fixed structures that effectively enhance the shape memory behaviors [3,6]. Nano layered silicates, carbon nanotubes, nano-silicon carbides and other inorganic fillers have been used frequently to improve the shape memory properties of polymers [5-9]. More recently, graphene nanoplatelets and its derivatives are considered to be excellent fillers in polymer nanocomposites because of their ultra-high modulus and strength, high specific surface area, wonderful electrical and thermal conductivity, and low density [10,11]. However, the challenge of achieving efficient dispersion creates a considerable obstacle to its usage.
 It has been reported that during nanocomposite preparation, graphene platelets tend to agglomerate due to the π-π stacking interactions between the platelets and their weak interactions with the polymer chains [6,12]. Several approaches have been implemented to obtain the desirable dispersion of graphene in nanocomposites, including utilizing chemical and physical surfactants and covalent functionalization [13-16]. Polylactic acid is a biodegradable and biocompatible semi-crystalline polymer which is commercially produced from renewable resources such as corn.
 Good mechanical properties and processibility of PLA as well as its ecofriendly characteristics make PLA good choice to be used in medical and pharmaceutical fields [4,17-19]. Despite a large number of investigations related to the synthesis and properties of PLA, only a few efforts have been made to study the shape memory properties of this polymer [20-24]. However, several reports on PLA/graphene have been published with the aim of improving PLA properties such as electrical conductivity, mechanical properties, thermal stability and crystallization, but investigations of shape memory behavior of PLA/graphene nanocomposites are still rare.
 Lashgari et al. reported the infrared triggering shape memory behavior of PLLA/graphene nanocomposites.
 The garphene nanoplatelets were incorporated for absorption of infrared waves energy and activate shape memory behavior in nanocomposites [25]. The main idea of this work is to investigate that how graphene dispersion influences crystallization behavior and mechanical properties of PLA and finally affects the shape memory properties of this polymer.
 Thus, PLA/graphene nanocomposites were prepared via solution casting method.
 In order to get better dispersion and distribution of graphene nanoplatelets in PLA media, surface modification of GNPs (graphene nanoplatelets) was done with the aid of compatibilizing zwitterionic surfactant.
 XRD and TEM were used to evaluate the state of GNP and SMGNP (surface modified graphene nanoplatelets) dispersion in PLA.
 Nonisothermal crystallization behavior of nanocomposites was studied using differential scanning calorimetry and finally mechanical properties and shape memory behaviors were surveyed.
'].
 X-ray patterns of neat PLA, GNPs, SMGNPs, and their related nanocomposites are included in Figure 1. In the GNP diffraction pattern, the sharp characteristic peak appeared at 2θ =26.4 oC, corresponding to the d002 spacing of the graphite interlayer distance (d=3.4 Å) [27]. However, in the SMGNP, this peak has disappeared due to nearly complete exfoliation of the graphene nanoplatelets.
 The neat PLA showed the crystalline (α form) characteristic peaks at 2θ=16.5° and 2θ=18.9° and a small peak at 2θ=22.3°  corresponding to the (2 0 0)/(1 1 0), (2 0 3) and (015) planes, respectively [28]. In the PLA-GNP nanocomposite, an additional peak appeared at 2θ=23.15° which can be correlated to stacked graphene layers.
 As observed, the characteristic peak at 2θ=26.4° of neat GNP powder is shifted to 23.15° in its own nanocomposite, indicating that the applied high shear and ultrasonic vibrations during sample preparation increased the interlayer distance between the graphene nanoplatelets (from 3.4 Å to 3.8 Å) and created an intercalated state dispersion of GNP in the PLA medium.
 The zwitterionic reaction between ADA and GNP is schematically depicted in Figure 2. To confirm the XRD results, TEM imaging was performed.
 Figure 3 shows the TEM micrographs of the nanocomposite samples.
 As it is seen in Figure 3(a), GNPs show poor dispersion and the stacked nanoplatelets appeared dark in many areas, indicating their relatively large thickness due to poor delamination.
 By contrast, transparent graphene nanoplatelets, which may comprise even monolayer graphene, can be clearly seen in Figure 3(b). It is evident from the image that SMGNPs were homogenously dispersed in the PLA matrix and the exfoliated state is attained.
 DSC thermograms of the samples in cooling step and 2nd heating are demonstrated in Figure 4 and the details are summarized in Table 1. The peaks specified in the cooling steps (Figure 4(a)) are related to the crystallization temperature (Tc) of specimens.
 FWHM is proportional to the spherulite size distribution and the smaller FWHM means more nucleation and uniform crystallization [29]. Figure 4(b) shows the second heating step of the DSC measurement.
 According to Table 1, the crystallization (χ) of PLA increased significantly upon addition of graphene, especially SMGNP.
 Stress-strain behavior of neat PLA and the nanocomposites is illustrated in Figure 5 and the obtained data are summarized in Table 2. As it is seen, Incorporation of GNP resulted in slight increase in elastic modulus tensile strength while more improvement was obtained in PLASMGNP nanocomposite due to the better dispersion of the SMGNP and the enhancement of interfacial interactions between the SMGNP and PLA matrix.
 Increasing the tensile modulus and strength of PLA along with reduction of strain at break as a result of crystallization enhancement was reported before [30]. The increasing of the tensile modulus and tensile strength leads to the increased area under the curve which is the elastic strain energy stored in samples and acts as shape recovery driving force in shape memory cycles.
 Because the low temperature modulus and glass transition temperature of polymers are very crucial factors in the shape memory properties, DMTA analysis was performed [31]. Figure 6 shows the storage modulus and tan δ values as a function of temperature, and Table 3 presents the results in detail. In the glassy region, the storage modulus of the nanocomposites was enhanced comparing to that of neat PLA which might be attributed to the stiffening effect of graphene nano-layers.
 It is generally accepted that the tan δ peak can be considered as the Tg of the polymer, but according to ASTM E1640, the glass transition temperature of a sample is indicated by the extrapolated onset of the decrease in the storage modulus, which marks the transition from a glassy state to a rubbery solid state.
 As seen in Table 3, the Tg values of the samples were slightly shifted to higher temperatures by the incorporation of the graphene nanoplatelets.
 The variations of stress, strain versus temperature during the shape memory programing for neat PLA are shown in Figure 7, and the calculated values are presented in Table 4. As it is seen, the shape recovery values show significant improvement from 81 % in neat PLA to 91 % in the PLASMGNP sample.
 It has been stated that the ratio of the elastic modulus below and above the trigger temperature and the hard segment content play crucial roles in shape memory behaviors, and a high value of this ratio is of prime importance for good shape memory performance [31]. As shown in Figure 6 and Table 3, the ratios of elastic to rubbery modulus are increased with the addition of GNP and are affected by the surface modification of GNP.
 It is well developed that the shape fixity is controlled by the amount of un-locked oriented chains [5]. If an affine deformation is applied; all chains experience the same level of deformation in the stretching step.
