Dielectric Behavior of Silica/Polyacrylamide NanocompositesPolyacrylamide (PAAM) nano silica inclusions composites were prepared having different ratios of nano silica. The silica inclusions were either modified or unmodified. The nanocomposite films were characterized by transmission electron microscope (TEM) and infrared spectroscopy (IR). The dielectric behavior of the composites had been investigated as a function of the concentration of the nano silica inclusions. The results show that the dielectric constant and dielectric loss of the nanocomposites are smaller than those obtained for the neat polymer. As the concentration of the surface-modified nano silica inclusions increases, the dielectric constant decreases. This behavior may be attributed to the successful interaction between the polymer and the surface of the nano silica inclusions. As would be expected, the results thus obtained are a clear manifestation of the role of surface treatment of the filler inclusions and subsequently the role played by the interface on the properties of the composites. Keywords: dielectric; nanocomposites; polyacrylamide; silica [' Polymer nanocomposites, i.
e.
 polymers containing inclusions with at least one dimension at the nanometer scale, have attracted considerable technological and scientific interest in recent years, due to their superior mechanical, physical and thermal characteristics.
 Nanocomposites often exhibit physical and chemical properties that are dramatically different from conventional macro- and micro-composites [[ 1]]. This is primarily due to the extremely high surface area they possess; one of the most attractive characteristics of nanoparticles is their ability to create a great amount of interphase in a composite.
 Therefore, introduction of nanoparticles into a polymer results in marked changes in the intermolecular interaction of the matrix [[ 2]]. Nanocomposites give rise to excellent mechanical, thermal, barrier and physical performance [[ 3]]. Fumed silica dioxide and nanometallic powder are particles, which are characterized by three dimensions in the nanoscopic range [[ 4][ 5]]. Nanocomposites containing layered silicates exhibit superior mechanical, thermal and barrier performance in comparison with conventional microcomposites [[ 6]].  Organic-inorganic nanocomposites with well-defined architectures have attracted increasing attention because of their potential to provide materials with controlled morphology at nanoscopic length scales [[ 7]]. These organic-inorganic nanocomposites exhibit many unique properties associated with both nanometer size and the multifunctionality arising from the organic and inorganic components [[ 8]].  The sol-gel method is widely used for obtaining an organic/silica composite [[ 9]]. A three-dimensional silica network can be formed by a stepwise polycondensation reaction of alkoxysilane.
 Its low-temperature processing allows organic molecules to be incorporated into silica without decomposition [[10]].  Monodispersed silica colloids were applied as model material in various applications [[11][12]]. Using silica particles with a specified particle size and extremely narrow distribution, the diameter of silica particles is mainly controlled by the relative contribution from nucleation and growth.
  Once the nucleation process determines the total number of nuclei, the resultant particle size is then fixed by total quantity of tetraethylorthosilicate, TEOS [[13]]. When all the nuclei are created during the same nucleation process, we will obtain silica colloids with narrow or even monodispersed size distribution.
 In general, parameters which affect the rate of preceding reactions, would in turn affect the rate of generation of supersaturation and hence the number of nuclei formed.
 These parameters include concentration of reactant, type of reactant, reaction temperature, concentration of catalyst (NH3), and concentration of water, as well as the choice of cosolvents [[14]].  The molecular dynamics of a series of poly(dimethylsiloxane) networks filled with silica nanoparticles synthesized in-situ was studied using dielectric relaxation spectroscopy.
 A slower α-relaxation was observed.
 This behavior is discussed in terms of a gradual increase of relaxation time close to the surface of the nanoparticles [[17]].  Furthermore, from a practical point of view, dispersive mixing in preparing polymer-based particulate composites has important technical meaning.
 However, a homogenous dispersion of nanoparticles in a polymer is very difficult to obtain by using the existing compounding techniques due to the strong tendency of the fine particles to agglomerate and the high melt viscosity of the matrix.
 When the composites are subjected to force, the nanoparticle agglomerates can be split easily and a premature failure of the materials would thus take place [[ 4][18]].  Therefore, with appropriate surface modification, the surface of silica can be rendered hydrophobic so that the water molecules will be repelled [[19]], e.
g.
, by substituting the hydrogen of the OH groups by attaching some organic groups (alkyl or aryl) [[19]].  The relative high dielectric constant of polyacrylamide limits its application as a dielectric material. Various approaches have been used in an attempt to alter the physical or chemical structure of polyacrylamide.
 This article aims to study the dielectric properties of silica/polyacrylamide nanocomposites (silica/PAAM NCs).  PAAM is selected because of its hydrophilic nature, that produces composites in which the nanoparticles are covalently connected with the matrix, so little or no phase separation will be generated due to the strong compatibility.
  The microstructures of silica composite were studied with a transmission electron microscope (TEM). The nanosilica particle surface chemistry was characterized using a Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR). The dielectric properties of polyacrylamide silica nanocomposites were determined and discussed as a function of silica content.
 Also the effect of surface treatment of silica on the dielectric properties was studied to know how the presence of silica particles affects the properties of the polymer matrix.
 And dielectric properties including frequency responses of capacitance of silica composite were investigated with a dielectric analyzer (DEA). '].
["##TEM of Samples  The TEM of samples show that the silica particle's size is about 50 nm.
 Figure 1 shows the TEM image of a cross-section of the unmodified silica.
  Graph: FIGURE 1 TEM micrograph of unmodified silica nanoparticles.
  In Figure 2, a far limited aggregation of the dark spots for the surface-modified silica is observed in comparison with the unmodified silica.
  Graph: FIGURE 2 TEM micrograph of modified silica nanoparticles.
  In Figure 3, a TEM micrograph of the unmodified silica/PAAM nanocomposite is shown.
  Graph: FIGURE 3 TEM micrograph of unmodified silica particles poly(acrylamide) nanocomposites.
  TEM of modified silica/PAAM nanocomposite, Figure 4, shows a very small amount of dark spots, which indicates that the surface-modified nanosilica particles are homogenously dispersed in PAAM, more than the unmodified nanosilica.
  Graph: FIGURE 4 TEM micrograph of modified silica particles poly(acrylamide) nanocomposites.
  ##FTIR Spectra  The FTIR spectra of the unmodified nanosilica, surface-modified nanosilica and the nanocomposites had been primarily concerned with of the absorption band of siloxane bond, Si–O–Si, which appears at (1020–1250 cm−1) and the silanol bond, O–H, which appears at (3300–3700 cm−1). A decrease in the intensity of OH band has been observed for the surface-modified silica and its respective nanocomposite as would be expected from the surface modification reducing the amount of the OH groups.
 The measurements were preformed in frequency range of 1 × 103 − 5 × 106 Hz at room temperature.
 Figures 5-7 show the dependence of dielectric constant on the frequency for the prepared nanocomposites.
  Graph: FIGURE 5 Effect of nanosilica content on the dielectric constant of poly(acrylamide) nanocomposites, shown as a function of frequency.
  Graph: FIGURE 6 Effect of the surface-modified particles nanosilica content on the dielectric constant of the poly(acrylamide) nanocomposites, shown as function of frequency.
  Graph: FIGURE 7 Effect of the surface-modified particles nanosilica content on the dielectric constant of the poly(acrylamide) nanocomposites, shown as function of frequency.
  Figure 5 shows the dependence of dielectric constant, ϵ′, of silica/PAAM composites on frequency at various contents of unmodified silica.
 This appears firstly when 0.05 wt% unmodified silica is added to the PAAM to show a significant decrease in ϵ′. This reduction in dielectric constant is attributed to the restriction in the mobility of the polymer chains by introducing the nano fillers.
 This indicates the limited ability of polarizable units in the nanocomposite to orient fast enough to keep up with the oscillations of an alternating electric field [[20]]. Increasing loading of unmodified silica will cause increase in ϵ′, due to increase in percentage of freely rotating OH groups present in unmodified silica.
  Figure 6 shows a comparison between the modified and unmodified silica-PAAM nanocomposites.
  Figure 7 shows the effect of an increased amount of modified silica on the ϵ′ of the obtained composite.
  Above 106 Hz, the dielectric constant increases with increasing frequency, until it reaches its maximum value, since all dipoles have sufficient rotational energy to allow passage over energy barriers and contribute to the orientation polarization.
  Figures 8 and 9 show the dependence of dielectric loss, ϵ″ on the frequencies for the neat polymer and nanosilica/polyacrylamide composites.
 Ideally, in a capacitor the ϵ″ should be as low as possible [[21]].  Graph: FIGURE 8 Effect of nanosilica content on the dielectric loss of the poly (acryl/amide) nanocomposites shown as function of frequency.
  Graph: FIGURE 9 Effect of the surface-modified particles nanosilica content on the dielectric loss of poly(acrylamide) nanocomposites, shown as function of frequency.
  A typical dielectric loss spectrum of the neat and the unmodified silica/PAAM nanocomposite at various frequencies is shown in Figure 8. It may be observed that a large decrease in the ϵ″ occurs at low frequency due to the predominance of the energy loss connected with direct current loss.
 Upon addition of 0.05 wt% of nanosilica (unmodified), ϵ″ decreased due to the restriction in mobility of the polymer chains.
  Figure 9 shows the variation of ϵ″ of nanocomposites with the percentage of treated and untreated silica.
