Surface modification of nano-silica with amides and imides for use in polyester nanocomposites† Surface modified nano-silica was synthesized through a condensation reaction of the silanol groups on the silica surface with 3-aminopropyltrimethoxysilane (APS). This primary amine offers a wide range of derivatization options and acts as a linker between a silica surface and many organic species. Quantitation of the results indicated the presence of 3–4 reactive APS groups per nm2 of silica. This implies that the silanol groups present on the surface of the silica have reacted to a high extent. APS-treated silica was further treated with a series of acid anhydrides to yield more stable amidoalkyl and imidoalkyl silica. The modified surfaces were analysed by thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), Fourier-transform infra-red (FT-IR) and solid-state 13C NMR spectroscopy techniques to study the organic content and functional composition. Results indicate that the silica particles functionalized with imidoalkylsiloxane (IASi) have much higher thermal stabilities compared to aminoalkyl functionalized silica. It was also observed that thermal stability of the IASi does not depend on the acid anhydride used for the derivatization of the APS treated silica. Furthermore we used this IASi for the synthesis of poly(ethylene terephthalate) (PET)–silica nanocomposites. Dynamic mechanical analysis revealed an enhancement of the storage modulus with increasing silica content at ambient temperature as well as above the glass-transition temperature. [' The complementary effect between the polymer matrix and inorganic nanoparticles has been utilized for a long time in the development of new materials.
1–12 The general expectation is that the incorporation of these inorganic materials can provide improved rigidity, mechanical and flame retardant properties and thermal stability of the polymer–inorganic nanocomposites (PINCs) over neat or traditionally filled polymers.
 Typically, such property enhancements originate from the nanometer-scale dispersion of these highly anisotropic inorganic fillers within the polymer matrix.
 Within the panoply of inorganic nanoparticles come nanotubes,13 layered silicates (e.
g.
, montmorillonite, synthetic mica, and laponite),14nanoparticles of metals (e.
g.
, Au and Ag), metal oxides (e.
g.
, TiO2 and Al2O3), and semiconductors (e.
g.
, PbS and CdS).15Silicananoparticles (SiO2) have received considerable attention from both scientific and technological communities because of their special physical and chemical properties.
  In fact, among the numerous inorganic–organic nanocomposites, polymer–silica composites are the most commonly reported in the literature.
12 One of the main reasons for this is the ease of chemical connectivity of the silica surface with polymer precursors and compatible functional groups.
 The resultant polymer–silica nanocomposites have been extensively used in sol–gel processes, in situpolymerization,16 photo-polymerization17,18 and surface-initiated polymerization.
19,20 However, their use in in situ melt condensation or in bulk processing is very limited due to the poor thermal stability of commercially available modified silica.
 This problem inhibits the use of modified silica for the preparation of polymer–silica nanocomposites via melt intercalation as well as during bulk processing where elevated temperatures are required.
 If the processing temperature is greater than the thermal stability of the modified silica, decomposition will occur thereby altering the interface between the silica and the polymer.
 Therefore, it is necessary to find an alternative approach for functionalization of nanosilica particles to achieve higher temperature stability.
  The hydroxyl groups present on silica surfaces can be easily modified with organic compounds or polymers by a variety of chemical procedures.
21–23 One of the most common surface modifications of silica involves the reaction of the silanol groups with commercial silane coupling reagents.
23–27 Such reagents possess bifunctionalism with one end capable of reacting with the silanol groups on the silica surface and the other end compatible or reactive with the polymer.
 The modification process is described as a hydrolysis and condensation reaction between the silane coupling agents and the silica surface in a polar medium.
 The bonding between the silane and the silica surface removes the surface silanol groups and changes the hydrophilic surface into a more hydrophobic one.
 The Si–O–Si–C moiety formed by this reaction not only provides a chemically stable attachment to the silica matrix but also allows further modification with high chemical stability.
 Commonly used silane coupling agents for surface modification of nanosilica are alkoxyalkylsilanes that bear one to three reactive alkoxy (ethoxy or methoxy) groups on the central silane with a functional side chain such as propanoic acid,12 chloroalkyl group,21,28–31 or amino-functional alkyl group.
12,32 The aminopropyl functionalized alkoxysilane is arguably the best candidate due to low cost, wide availability and extensive number of applications.
 For example, a primary amine is a good ligand for metal ions and can therefore serve as a sorbent in waste-water treatment33,34 or gas separation.
35,36 It can immobilize catalytically active transition metal ions useful for a variety of organic transformations.
37–39 In addition, the nucleophilic primary amine can be used as a linker between the silica surface and many reactive organic groups.
  The main disadvantage of aminopropylalkoxysilane-modified silica is that after modification, the materials often suffer from poor hydrothermal stability in humid environments or aqueous solutions.
 Also, the amine groups have a tendency to form carbamic acids in the presence of atmospheric carbon dioxide.
40 One approach to overcome these limitations is immediate conversion of the amine groups to more stable amides and imides by reaction of the amine-modified silica with acid anhydrides, acid halides and esters.
  In the present study, we modified nanosilica with 3-aminopropyltrimethoxysilane (APS) in toluene.
 The product of this reaction was further derivatized with different acid anhydrides to yield imidoalkyl-modified silicananoparticles (IASi). In order to assess the potential of these IASi, a detailed study was carried out using thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), FT-IR, and solid state NMR techniques.
 We also synthesized two types of poly(ethylene terephthalate)–silica nanocomposites using IASi and commercially modified silica (Aerosil® R202), and evaluated their physical and mechanical properties.
'].
 1. The introduction of a primary amine onto the silica surface is accomplished by a condensation reaction between surface silanol groups with 3-aminopropyltrimethoxysilane (APS), a commercial silane coupling agent for glass fiber composites.
 2) and FT-IR (Fig.
 3) spectroscopy.
  The solid state 13C NMR spectra obtained for APS/SiO2 exhibit three peaks at 42, 22.5 and 9.9 ppm corresponding to the methylene groups of APS, i.
 CH2–NH2, Si–CH2 and –CH2–, respectively (Fig.
 2, spectrum 1, ESI, Fig.
 S1†). The carbon attached to nitrogen is observed downfield to the peak for the carbon attached to silicon, while the methylene group in the middle is the farthest up field, as expected.
 3 and ESI, Fig.
 S7†) for untreated SiO2 shows a characteristic peak at 1190 cm−1 which corresponds to the Si–O–Si linkage.
41 A broad peak at 3430 cm−1, corresponding to –OH groups on the surface of the SiO2 particles, decreases on treating with APS.
 Two new peaks appear at 1410 and 2926 cm−1 corresponding to the C–H stretching and C–H deformation bands of the –CH2 groups of APS (Fig.
 3, traces 1 and 2). Additional evidence of successful covalent coupling comes from the thermal decomposition study of the modified silica.
 The TGA analysis of the APS modified silica showed the thermal decomposition peak at 387 °C and a total organic content of 11.8 wt% (Fig.
 4).  ## Reactive site quantification  Before proceeding with further functionalization of the APS modified silica, it was important to determine the percentage of surface hydroxyl groups that reacted with APS.
 On the basis of the results from TGA analyses, it was possible to estimate the number of R-groups per nm2 of nano-silica having a specific surface area of 200 m2 g−1 (based on the manufacturer's literature). With the given average diameter (12 nm), the surface area of the silica particles is calculated to be 4.52 × 10−16 m2. Specific surface area is defined as the surface area per unit mass of the particle.
 The mass of silica per particle was calculated from this as 2.26 × 10−18 g.
 Assuming that only one of the silanol groups of APS reacted on average and knowing the weight loss calculated from TGA analysis, the number of R-groups estimated for a SiO2 of a specific area of 200 m2 g−1 is about 4–5 R-groups per nm2 (detailed calculations are given in the ESI†). This value is in the range of surface hydroxyl groups determined for silica surfaces,42 and hence, is in agreement with the assumption that the surface hydroxyl groups have reacted to an extent of 85–90%.  ## Functionalization of APS treated silica  Attaching primary amines to the silica surface opens up a wide range of possible functionalization reactions.
 1. The products obtained from conversion of SiO2/APS to amides/imides were characterized by solid-state 13C NMR spectroscopy (Fig.
 2 and ESI, Fig.
 S2 to S6†) and FT-IR spectroscopy (Fig.
 3 and ESI, Fig.
 S7†).43  The 13C NMR spectra (Fig.
 2) of these materials show the three characteristic peaks corresponding to the methylene groups of APS in the region between 10 and 50 ppm.
 In addition a new peak between 170 and 180 ppm for all the modified silicas was observed consistent with the presence of carbonyl functional groups in these materials (Table 1).  In the FT-IR spectra, there appears a new sharp characteristic peak between 1600 and 1700 cm−1 corresponding to the carbonyl stretching frequency for amides and imides (Fig.
 3, traces 3 to 7).  ##Thermal stability of treated silica  An important component of this study was to synthesize surface modified silica with higher thermal stability than typical functionalized silicananoparticles.
 The results summarized in Table 2 and Fig.
 4 confirm that the thermal stabilities of amide and imide modified silica particles are significantly higher than the corresponding APS treated silica or commercially available surface-modified silica Aerosil® R202.   For example, the measured decomposition temperature of APS treated silica was 325 °C but after the condensation reaction with acetic anhydride, it increased to 420 °C.
 These SiAc–PET nanocomposites were compared with PET nanocomposites of commercially available silica, Aerosil® R202 (SiAR) and silica treated with APS (SiAP). The PET nanocomposites with 0.25, 0.5 and 1 wt% silica were synthesized using an in situpolymerization process.
 For high molecular weight polyesters, these resin pellets were solid state polymerized at 220 °C under a vacuum of 40–80 Pa for ∼2 h.
 They were then injection molded into preforms and stretch blow molded into 500 mL bottles.
 ##Fundamental properties of PET nanocomposites  The fundamental properties such as intrinsic viscosity (IV) and thermal behavior of pure PET and the PET nanocomposites are listed in Table 3. The intrinsic viscosities of the PET and the nanocomposites are approximately equal because the polymerization processes were controlled by melt viscosities.
 The thermal properties of PET–SiO2 nanocomposites are consistent with pure PET which means that the introduction of SiO2nanoparticles had no significant effect on the polymerization process (Table 3). In this study the PET nanocomposites with 1% Aerosil® R202 (SiAR) did not have the required intrinsic viscosity, and films formed from this lower molecular weight material were brittle.
44–46 In general, highly dispersed nanostructures lead to improved mechanical properties.
 5 shows TEM images of PET-based nanocomposites having 1 wt% APS and SiAc treated silica nanoparticles.
  The PET nanocomposites with 1 wt% APS treated silica showed agglomeration of the nanoparticles in the PET matrix (Fig.
 5A), while the SiAc–PET nanocomposites (Fig.
 5B) showed better dispersion of silica particles in the polymer matrix.
 Table 4 shows the storage moduli of PET nanocomposites (pressed film and side walls of the bottle). Fig.
 5 shows a representative storage modulus of PET bottles as a function of temperature in the range of 30 to 300 °C.
 The average values of three measurements of storage modulus at 30, 150, and 200 °C are listed in Table 4. The nanocomposites made using Aerosil® R202 and APS treated silica showed no significant improvement in the storage modulus compared to neat PET.
 Specifically, for blown bottles they were higher by 124% and 144% for 0.5 wt% SiAc–PET and 1% SiAc–PET, respectively at 30 °C.
 At 150 °C, the improvements are 122% and 204%, respectively.
 6). "].
