Synthesis and properties of low‐dielectric‐constant polyimides with introduced reactive fluorine polyhedral oligomeric silsesquioxanes A high‐performance, low‐dielectric‐constant polyimide (PI) nanocomposite from poly(amic acid) (PAA) cured with a reactive fluorine polyhedral oligomeric silsesquioxane (POSS) isomer was successfully synthesized. The features of this reactive fluorine POSS isomer [octakis(dimethylsiloxyhexafluoropropylglycidyl ether)silsesquioxane (OFG)] provided two important approaches (containing fluorine or being porous in the polymer matrix) of reducing the dielectric constant of PI. This reactive POSS isomer had an average of four epoxy groups and four fluorine groups on the POSS cage, and the epoxy groups could be cured with PAA to form a network framework of a PI/POSS nanocomposite. The PI/OFG nanocomposite had a high crosslinking density, high porosity (24.3%), high hydrophobicity, and low polarizability. These properties enhanced the thermal (glass‐transition temperature ∼ 362 °C) and dielectric (dielectric constant ∼2.30) properties of PI more than other POSS derivatives introduced into the PI backbone. A large number of small POSS particles (<10 nm) were embedded inside the PI matrix when the OFG content was low, whereas interconnected POSS aggregation domains were observed when the OFG content was high. [' Polyimides with low dielectric constants (low‐k PIs) are a class of polymers that are employed extensively in microelectronics because of their outstanding properties, such as thermooxidative stability, size stability, favorable thermal properties, high mechanical strength, and excellent electrical properties.
 Preparation approaches for low‐k PIs include a number of techniques, such as fluorination,1-9 sol–gel hybrid nanocomposites,10-16 nanofoam technologies,17-19 and the incorporation of adamantine/diamantine groups.
20-22 Among these technologies, fluorination may be the most widely adapted technique in the synthesis of low‐k PIs because this technology improves dielectric and optical properties, as well as process performance, while lowering moisture absorption.
 The low polarizability of the fluorine atom enables it to reduce the polarizability of polyimide (PI) and increase the free volume in the PI matrix.
 Fluoro‐PI has a lower dielectric constant than plain PI, but the high fluorine atom content on the PI backbone degrades the thermal and mechanical properties.
 Fluorination also has several drawbacks, such as poor adhesion, a low glass‐transition temperature (Tg), a high coefficient of thermal expansion (CTE), and low mechanical strength.
9 Moreover, fluoro‐containing monomers of fluoro‐PI involve a complicated synthetic process and expensive monomers.
 A more porous PI2, 23 has a lower dielectric constant but poor thermal and mechanical properties, with nonuniformly sized pores inside the PI matrix.
 Both means of reducing the dielectric constant of PI have their own disadvantages, so polyhedral oligomeric silsesquioxane (POSS) derivatives as side chains or main chains are grafted onto the PI backbone to produce an organic–inorganic hybrid.
 The rigid and porous structure of POSS enables it to reduce the dielectric constant and maintain the thermal and mechanical properties of PI.
18, 24, 25 In addition, previous investigations11, 12 have shown that the sol–gel components or derivatives of poly(silsesquioxane) can be employed to prepare various PI matrices to form nanocomposites.
 However, some critical issues, including the dielectric constant, size stability, and problem of silica aggregation for the PI matrix, are important challenges for material scientists.
 POSS derivatives have been used in a PI matrix to solve these problems.
  POSS as a nanoreinforcement has been extensively applied to reinforce polymers as nanocomposites.
 Incorporating POSS particles into linear thermoplastics or thermosetting networks can modify the thermal, oxidative, and dimensional stability of many polymer resins, improving their properties for various high‐performance engineering applications.
 These enhancements have been applied to a wide range of thermoplastic and a few thermosetting systems, such as methacrylates,26, 27 styrenes,28 norbornenes,29 siloxanes,30 and epoxies.
31-33 Therefore, many nanocomposites that incorporate functionalized POSS derivatives with traditional plastics and resins can be useful. Our previous studies31, 34, 35 introduced POSS derivatives into a polymer matrix to investigate the interaction between POSS and the polymer or to reduce the dielectric constant of the polymer.
  This work is focused on synthesizing a novel reactive fluorine POSS derivative that can be cured with poly(amic acid) (PAA) and imidized to generate a network framework for a PI nanocomposite.
 This porous POSS derivative with fluorine and epoxy groups on its cage can markedly reduce the dielectric constant of PI through the covalent bonding of fluorine atoms and the introduction of porosity.
 A very small amount of this reactive fluorine POSS derivative is expected to be able to enhance the thermal and dielectric properties of PI nanocomposites.
 '].
["Scheme 1 shows the synthesis of OFG, which was prepared with a mixture of AGE and AHFPE in an equal molar ratio.
 The chemical structure of OFG was characterized with FTIR and 1H NMR.
 Figure 1 displays FTIR spectra of pure POSS, AGE, AHFPE, and OFG (POSS fluorine epoxy). Figure 1(A) displays a sharp, strong, and symmetric Si-O-Si stretching peak at ∼1100 cm−1, typical of silsesquioxane cages, and a smaller Si-H stretching peak at ∼2140 cm−1.34, 36, 37 AGE exhibited a small CH2\uf8feCH- stretching peak at ∼1640 cm−1 and a peak at ∼915 cm−1 associated with the asymmetric stretching of the epoxy ring, as presented in Figure 1(B). AHFPE yielded a small CH2 \uf8fe CH- stretching peak at ∼1640 cm−1, -CF3 stretching peaks at 702 and 1260 cm−1, and a -CF2- stretching peak at 1201 cm−1, as presented in Figure 1(C). In Figure 1(D), both the Si-H and CH2\uf8feCH peaks disappeared, and this indicated that the allyl group of AGE and AHFPE was consumed in the reaction with Si-H of POSS to produce a covalent bond with the POSS structure; the -CF3 and -CF2- peaks were associated with the epoxy ring [remaining in Fig.
 1(D)].38 In Figure 2, -Si-H of the POSS chemical shift disappeared.
 The chemical shifts of the peak from the CH2\uf8feCH- group in AGE and AHFPE indicated conversion into the -CH2-CH2- group (0.57, 0.85, 1.30, and 1.60 ppm) in OFG.
 The epoxy group (2.56, 2.75, and 3.11 ppm) and the -CHF- group (4.73 and 4.81 ppm) of OFG are displayed in Figure 2. The integrated area of the 1H NMR chemical shifts of OFG was considered to verify the arm ratio of the epoxy and -CHF- groups for OFG.
 Thus, the equal integrated areas of epoxy and -CHF- groups of the 1H NMR chemical shifts were confirmed.
 Both FTIR and 1H NMR results clearly verify that the OFG chemical structure is a statistical mixture of a multifunctional POSS with an average of four fluorine groups and four epoxy groups per POSS molecule, suggesting that POSS can react with AGE and AHFPE by hydrosilation to produce OFG.
  Figure 3 displays the FTIR spectra of PIs containing various OFGs and PAA.
 The PAA structure is characterized by absorption bands at 1667 (C\uf8feO, in the amide group), 1538 (C\uf8ffN, in the amide group), and 1259 cm−1 (\uf8ffCNH, in the amide group).39 After imidization, the completely imidized structure (PI/0% OFG) was verified by the absorption bands at 1777 (asymmetric C\uf8feO, in the imide group) and 1725 cm−1 (symmetric C\uf8feO, in the imide group)39 and by the absence of bands at 1667, 1538, and 1259 cm−1. However, the FTIR spectra of PI/x% OFG included absorption bands at 1259 cm−1 (\uf8ffCF3, OFG). The \uf8ffCF3 group of OFG (1259 cm−1) and the \uf8ffCNH group of PAA overlapped each other.
 PI without OFG exhibited no absorption band at 1259 cm−1 (\uf8ffCF3) after imidization.
 The intensity of the absorption band of \uf8ffCF3 increased with the percentage of OFG in PI.
 Figure 4 displays the solid‐state 13C NMR spectrum of PI containing 3 wt % OFG.
 Figure 4 displays peaks of PI/OFG nanocomposites.
 The major peaks at 53.2 and 46.4 ppm, associated with the epoxy of OFG, disappeared, and this indicated that OFG cured with PAA formed network structures as imidization yielded PI/OFG network nanocomposites.
 Scheme 2 presents the network structure of PI/OFG nanocomposites, and Table 1 presents the results of the elemental analysis of PI/OFG nanocomposites.
 Figure 5 presents the XRD profiles of PI/OFG nanocomposites.
 However, a broad maximum at 2θ = 6.0° revealed the aggregation of POSS units in the PI/OFG network.
 The peak intensity at 2θ = 6.0° increased with the OFG content, revealing increasing aggregation.
 Figure 6(A–D) displays FESEM micrographs of cross sections of PI containing various amounts of OFG.
 Figure 6(A) presents an FESEM micrograph of PI containing 3 wt % OFG.
 A large number of small POSS particles (<10 nm) were embedded inside the PI matrix.
 Figure 6(D) displays an FESEM micrograph of PI containing 15 wt % OFG.
 Equally sized POSS particles (30–40 nm) were dispersed in the PI matrix.
 The nanocomposites with higher OFG contents (PI/10% OFG and PI/15% OFG) exhibited significant POSS aggregation because of the poor miscibility of OFG with PAA.
 6(C,D)] among the aggregated particles.
 In Figure 6(C,D), the red circles represent the interconnected and aggregated POSS particles in the PI matrix.
 Figure 6(E) presents the AFM phase image of PI/OFG 15 wt %, showing apparent POSS aggregation and many interconnected phases in the PI matrix.
 Figure 7 plots the DMA thermograms of the loss modulus against the temperature of the PI/OFG nanocomposites.
 Table 2 summarizes the results.
 Tg of plain PI was 350.9 °C.
 The Tg values of the PI/OFG nanocomposites with 3, 7, 10, and 15 wt % OFG were 360.9, 362.1, 360.3, and 359.0 °C, respectively.
 The CTE of plain PI was 31.1 ppm/°C.
 Table 3 shows the static contact angle (Θ) versus the water and glycerol contents, as well as the surface tension or surface free energy (γs), whose polar (γsp) and dispersive (γsd) components were determined with Wu's harmonic mean method:40 equation image(2) where γ1 is the known surface tension of the test liquid and γs1 is the interfacial tension of the system.
 Many studies41-44 have demonstrated that a polymer containing fluorine atoms has lower surface polarity and lower surface free energy than a plain polymer because the fluorine atom has low polarizability.
  The dielectric constants of PIs containing OFG were measured at 100k Hz by dielectric analysis (DEA). Table 3 summarizes the results of DEA and the hybrid densities.
 The dielectric constants of the PI/OFG nanocomposites with 3, 7, 10, and 15 wt % OFG were 2.84, 2.64, 2.56, and 2.30, respectively.
 The fluorine atoms affected the dielectric constant of the polymer by (1) changing the hydrophobicity, (2) changing the free volume, and (3) changing the overall polarizability.
45 The section on surface properties discusses the relationship between the surface free energy and the OFG content in the PI matrix.
 Figure 8(A) plots both the dielectric constant and surface free energy of the PI/OFG nanocomposites versus the OFG content.
 Table 4 shows the increase in the relative porosity and in the total free volume fraction of the PI/OFG nanocomposites.
24, 25 The PI hybrid containing 15 wt % OFG exhibited a high relative porosity (24.37%) and a high total free volume fraction (0.319). Figure 8(B) plots the relationship between the dielectric constant and total free volume fraction and the OFG content in the PI matrix.
24, 25 OFG has both fluorine atoms and a nanoporous structure and so can increase the free volume, hydrophobicity, and porosity, while reducing the polarizability of plain PI.
