Functionalized graphene sheet—Poly(vinylidene fluoride) conductive nanocomposites PVDF nanocomposites based on functionalized graphene sheets, FGS prepared from graphite oxide, and exfoliated graphite, EG, were prepared by solution processing and compression molding. FGS remains well dispersed in the PVDF composites as evidenced by the lack of the characteristic graphite reflection in the composites. Although the α-phase of PVDF is seen in the EG-based composites, a mixture of α- and β-phases is present in the FGS analogs. SEM and TEM imaging show smooth fractured surfaces with oriented platelets of graphite stacks and obvious debonding from the matrix in the EG-PVDF composites. In contrast, the FGS-PVDF composites show a wrinkled topography of relatively thin graphene sheets bonded well to the matrix. Storage modulus of the composites was increased with FGS and EG concentration. A lower percolation threshold (2 wt %) was obtained for FGS-PVDF composites compared to EG-PVDF composites (above 5 wt %). Lastly, the FGS-PVDF composites show an unusual resistance/temperature behavior. The resistance decreases with temperature, indicating an NTC behavior, whereas EG-PVDF composites show a PTC behavior (e.g., the resistance increases with temperature). We attribute the NTC behavior of the FGS based composites to the higher aspect ratio of FGS which leads to contact resistance predominating over tunneling resistance. [' Graphite nanoplatelets have attracted considerable attention as viable and inexpensive filler for conducting nanocomposites.
1-6 Graphite nanoplatelets with their excellent mechanical, thermal and electrical properties offer an alternative to carbon nanotubes.
 Different types of nano graphite forms such as expanded graphite, exfoliated graphite (EG), and graphene have been used to make conductive nanocomposites.
 Expanded graphite reinforced with thermoplastic and thermosets were studied by various researchers.
7-9 Electrically conducting nanocomposites using exfoliated graphite have been a major attraction in recent years.
 There are studies on exfoliated graphite composites based on a variety of polymers including PMMA,10 polypropylene,11-14 HDPE,15, 16 polyaniline,17, 18 polystyrene,3, 19 Nylon,19-21 copolymers,22, 23 and thermoset resins.
24-28 Graphene–polymer composites have also been reported.
29, 30  Recently Schnieep et al. reported functionalized graphene sheets (FGS) prepared by controlled thermal expansion of graphite oxide (GO).31, 32 Ramanathan et al. reported nanocomposites using FGS as filler and found that the Tg of PMMA, PAN and PAA was improved greatly by the addition of FGS.
33 FGS silicone foam nanocomposites were studied by Verdejo et al. They found that FGS nanocomposites show improved thermal stability and heat dissipation efficiency.
34 FGS-polyester composites were showed to have better conductivity with a low percolation threshold.
35  Poly(vinylidene fluoride) is known for its applications based on its mechanical and electrical properties.
 It is widely used to prepare conducting composites for self-regulated heaters, over current protectors, antistatic shielding and conducting electrodes for lithium batteries.
 Different fillers such as conducting carbon black, metal powders, or metal oxides are typically blended with the polymer to prepare conductive composites.
 The variation of electrical conductivity with temperature is the main property, which makes conductive nanocomposites to be used as temperature sensors, as self regulator heaters and over current protectors.
 Addition of graphene, exfoliated graphite, expanded graphite or functionalized graphene sheets in PVDF matrix to prepare conductive nanocomposites which has potential for a variety of electrical and electronic applications has yet to be explored.
  Here we report a comparative study of PVDF nanocomposites based on functionalized graphene sheets, FGS, and exfoliated graphite, EG.
 The composites, prepared using solution processing followed by compression molding, were characterized in terms of their electrical, mechanical, and thermal properties.
 The effect of temperature on the electrical conductivity of the nanocomposites was also studied.
 A lower percolation threshold was obtained for the FGS-PVDF composites compared to the EG-PVDF analogs.
 In addition, the FGS-PVDF composites show an unusual resistance versus temperature behavior.
 In contrast to the EG-PVDF composites which exhibit a positive temperature coefficient of the resistance, PTC, the FGS-PVDF composites show a negative temperature coefficient, NTC, behavior.
 NTC is quite unusual for such composites and the almost four orders decrease we report here for our system is unprecedented.
8 '].
[' The XRD patterns of graphite, graphite oxide (GO), EG and FGS are shown in Figure 1. The traces for graphite and EG show the characteristic peak of graphite at 2θ of 26°. GO shows a diffraction peak at 2θ of 9.8° corresponding to a d-spacing of 0.9 nm.
 It has been reported that the d-spacing of GO depends on the method of preparation and also on the number of layers of water trapped in the structure of the material.36 FGS shows no characteristic peak indicating the loss of any long-range stacking order in the material.  SEM images of FGS shows a thin paper-like wrinkled morphology (Fig.
 2). In contrast, SEM images of EG show much thicker platelets.
  Neat PVDF crystallizes predominately in the α phase with characteristic peaks at 17.9, 18.5, 20.1, and 26.7 as shown in Figure 3.37 The α phase is also seen in the EG-PVDF nanocomposites.
 A new reflection at 2θ = 20.8 can be seen in Figure 3 characteristic of the β phase.
  Figure 4 shows several DSC thermograms of neat PVDF and PVDF nanocomposites.
 Neat PVDF exhibits a melting at 167 °C.
 The corresponding melting for the EG-PVDF composites also occurs between 167 and 169 °C (Fig.
 4). In contrast, the FGS-PVDF nanocomposites show two melting transitions corresponding to both the α-phase and β-phase of PVDF.
37  The second peak at higher temperature (172 °C) is less pronounced in the 0.5 and 1 wt % FGS PVDF composites but clear peaks are seen at higher concentrations of FGS.
 At 4 wt % the intensity of the two peaks (167 and 172 °C) is almost similar suggesting that FGS facilitates the formation of the β-phase of PVDF.
 5).  Incorporation of either EG or FGS leads to stiffening of PVDF.
 The storage modulus (G′) of neat PVDF at room temperature (25 °C) is 1275 MPa (Fig.
 6). The improvement in storage modulus by either FGS or EG is comparable.
 The 2 wt % filled FGS-PVDF and EG-PVDF show a storage modulus of 1859 and 1739 MPa, respectively, at 25 °C.
 At 4 wt % the corresponding values are 2460 and 2695 MPa, respectively, which is almost double that of neat PVDF.
  PVDF has two major transitions, a lower glass transition around −30 °C called β relaxation corresponding to the amorphous phase and an upper glass transition corresponding to the amorphous–crystalline (a–c) interface at ∼80 °C called α relaxation.
38, 39 The β relaxation is the most prominent while the upper Tg depends on processing conditions.
39 The tanδ spectrum of neat PVDF and FGS-PVDF nanocomposites shows a prominent peak around −30 °C and a weak upper Tg around 75 °C (Fig.
 7). In FGS-PVDF composites, the upper Tg is slightly shifted to higher temperature.
 8). In contrast, the EG-PVDF composites appear relatively smooth with the EG platelets not well bonded to the matrix polymer and somewhat aligned.
 9).  The interest in graphite-filled composites stems from their high electrical conductivity.
  The electrical conductivity of the EG-PVDF and FGS-PVDF composites is shown in Figure 10. The FGS filled PVDF nanocomposites show percolation around 2 wt % compared to 5 wt % for the EG filled composites.
  The effect of temperature on conductivity was evaluated by heating the EG-PVDF nanocomposites from 20 to 170 °C and measuring their conductivity at 1 Hz at 10 °C intervals.
 11). The gradual increase is followed by a sharp increase in resistivity, when the melting point of the PVDF is reached.
40-42 This increase in resistance is reversible after a certain temperature range.
 The maximum increase in resistivity is seen for the 8 wt % EG-PVDF composites with an almost three orders of magnitude change in resistivity.
40 A minimum three fold increase in resistance is required for practical applications.
43  In contrast, the FGS-PVDF nanocomposites show an NTC effect, that is, its resistivity decreases gradually with temperature with a dramatic decrease in resistivity above the melting point (Fig.
 12). NTC is quite unusual for such composites.
 Recently Jovic et al. reported a slight decrease in resistance (20%) with temperatures for EG loaded epoxy nanocomposites but the almost four orders decrease seen in our system is unprecedented.
8  Electrically conducting composites can be imagined as a series of resistors, with each particle and each particle-particle contact contributing to the total resistance of the system.
44 Usually tunneling resistance predominates in conductive composites.
8 NTC based ceramic thermistors are now widely used as temperature sensors and FGS-PVDF nanocomposites could potentially serve as an alternative technology.
