DC Breakdown Strength and Conduction Current of MgO/LDPE Composite Influenced by Filler SizeA nano-composite material is attracting many researchers' attention in the field of dielectric and electrical insulation. The purpose of this study is to investigate the influence of MgO filler size on electrical propl'lties of MgO/ LDPE nanocomposite. The volume resistivity, DC breakdown strength and the impulse breakdown strength of low-density polyethylene (LDPE) containing nano-filler or micro-filler of magnesium oxide (MgO) were measured. The volume resistivity of the sample without the MgO filler increases by addition of the MgO nano-filler or the MgO micro-filler. The impulse breakdown strength and the DC breakdown strength of the sample without the MgO filler measured with McKeown type electrode increases by the addition of the MgO nano-filler but that does not increase by the addition of the MgO micro-filler. From the result, it becomes clear that the addition of the MgO nano-filler is suitable for the DC insulating material rather than that of the MgO micro-filler. ["Polymer insulating materials are widely applied to power apparatuses and cables.
 Traditionally, additive agents and fillers are often used for improving insulating and mechanical properties [1]. Recently, nano-composite material is attracting many researchers' attention in the field of dielectric and electrical insulation [2]. A nano-composite polymer is composed of nano-filler, of which diameter is as small as a few tens to a few hundreds of nanometers, and a polymer as a matrix.
 Since the sectional area of the interface between the filler and the matrix is enormously large compared to that of conventional micro-composite materials, some improvement of insulating performance is expected to be realized by using such technology.
 In previous paper, it is reported by the authors that the addition of nano-sized magnesium oxide (MgO) to a low-density polyethylene (LDPE) brought significantly improvement of electrical properties like DC breakdown strength, the volume resistivity, the space charge and the electrical treeing [3]-[5]. The purpose of this study is to investigate the electrical properties influenced by the MgO filler size.
 In this paper, the volume resistivity, DC breakdown strength and the impulse breakdown strength of LDPE containing nano-filler or micro-filler of MgO were measured.
 "].
 Conduction Current Figure 5 shows the influence of the MgO nano-filler content and MgO micro-filler content on the volume resistivity under the field application of 40 kV/mm.
 5 are each values of three measurements in the sample with the MgO filler and values without that, respectively.
 The MgO nano-filler content above 1 or 2 phr, the volume resistivity of the sample with MgO nano-filler show saturated value.
 It was reported by the authors that the charge density and the charge mobility of the sample with the MgO nano-filler decreased compared with that without the MgO filler [ 4]. It is considered that the trapping effect by the addition of the MgO nano-filler may suppresses the conduction current.
 However, the volume resistivity of 1 phr sample with the MgO micro-filler decreased than that of O phr sample.
 DC Breakdown and Impulse Breakdown Figure 6 shows the influence of the MgO nano-filler and micro-filler content on impulse breakdown strength using McKeown type electrode.
 The error bar and the signs are standard deviation and the average about 10 samples, respectively.
 Above the MgO nano-filler content of 1 phr, the impulse breakdown strength of the sample with MgO nano-filler show also saturated value.
 Figure 7 shows the influence of the MgO nano-filler and micro-filler content on the DC breakdown strength measured with McKeown type electrode.
 Above the MgO nano-filler content of0.2 or 2 phr, the DC breakdown strength of the sample with MgO nano-filler also showed almost saturated value.
 5. In the case of the MgO micro-filler sample, the DC breakdown strength of the sample with the MgO micro-filler is almost the same or deceased slightly compared with that without the MgO filler.
 Figure 8 shows the summary of the breakdown strengths measured with the McKeown type electrode.
8 are the results of the impulse breakdown test and that of the DC breakdown test, respectively.
 DC breakdown strength of 0 phr sample and the sample with MgO micro-filler was higher than impulse breakdmvn strength of those while DC breakdown strength of the sample with MgO nano-filler was ahnost same compared with impulse breakdovVll strength of that The addition of a few MgO nano-filler brought the improvement of the volume resistivity, impulse breakdown strength and DC breakdown strength as shown in Figs.
5, 6 and 7. Those characteristics of the sample with the MgO nanofiller showed a similar trend which those characteristics were saturated.
 It was reported by the authors that the suppression effect of conduction current determined by the space charge leads to higher DC breakdown strength of the sample with the MgO nano-filler from the space charge measurement up to the breakdown rmder ramp voltage with an increment of 500 V/s . [8] The space charge formation strictly depends on an increment rate of applied voltage.
