Nonlinear Conductivity and Dielectric Response of Graphene Oxide Filled Silicone Rubber NanocompositesGraphene oxide filled silicone rubber nanocomposites were found to possess a large nonlinear coefficient of electrical conductivity, smaller low field conductivity than that of the neat polymer and an increase in the dielectric constant over that of the polymer matrix with a very small increase in the dielectric loss. These electrical and dielectric properties make graphene oxide/silicone nanocomposites an excellent candidate for a field grading material. Possible mechanisms that lead to the observed dielectric behavior are discussed in this work. The effect of sample size and processing on the material properties is also discussed. ['Electric field grading materials are used to reduce the locally enhanced electric field in many electrical apparatus.
 Insulating materials, usually polymer composites with tunable field dependent conductivity as well as high dielectric constant and low loss, are used for electric field grading applications [1]. Polymer composites filled with semi-conducting ceramic particles such as SiC, ZnO etc.
 and carbon black [2], [3] are used in current field grading materials.
 To obtain nonlinear electrical conductivity, the filler loading needs to reach the percolation threshold, typically 30 to 40 vol% for spherical fillers.
 The high loading leads to poor mechanical properties and high density.
 In our previous study [4], composites of poly(dimethyl siloxane) (PDMS) filled with graphene oxide (GO) or slightly thermally reduced GO exhibited increased dielectric constant, low loss and unusual nonlinear electrical conductivity at a small filler loading of about 3 vol%. In this paper, some of the results in [4] are presented followed by a more detailed discussion about the possible mechanisms that lead to the observed dielectric and electrical response.
 In addition, the nonlinear conductivity and dielectric constant of GO composites in a scaled-up production are presented and compared to those of lab-scale samples.
'].
 For example, 3PHR-RGO140 means the loading was 3 PHR and the GO was thermally reduced at 140 °C.
 Some of these results were published in [4]. ##A.
 Conductivity at Low Field The low field behavior of GO filled composites can be observed in an absorption current measurement with an applied electric field of 1 kV/mm shown in Fig.
 1a.
 The current of the 5 PHR composite samples was below the sensitivity of the equipment after about 3 hours, indicating a conductivity of less than 6×10-16 S/m.
 On the other hand, the current for the neat PDMS samples started with a higher initial value, and dropped continuously during 6 days to a stable value of 7.54×10-14 S/m.
 2a shows the conductivity for the small samples with GO reduced at 120 °C as a function of electric field.
 At low field strength (below 1 kV/mm), all the nanocomposites exhibited a lower conductivity than that of the neat PDMS.
 The slope corresponds to the nonlinear coefficient α, which can be defined in the function [1], where σ is the conductivity of material and E is the field strength.
 In the non-linear region of GO filled composites, α has a value of 16 which is considered to be a large value in field grading applications [1]. The conductivity also reached a plateau at high field, which is unique from the field grading composites with spherical fillers [2]. Fig.
 2b shows the comparison of conductivity between the small and large samples.
 At high field, the test was limited to 10 kV/mm due to surface flashover.
 2b.
 3a.
 The dielectric constant increased to 8 in the 5PHR-RGO120 sample, which is significant considering the low filler loading.
 Meanwhile, the loss factor increased moderately from 0.001 to 0.003 at 100 Hz.
 Both the dielectric constant and loss factor were flat above 10 Hz for all the composites.
 3b.
 For example, the relative increase of the dielectric constant for the 5PHR-RGO120 composites is 55% for the large samples, and 150% for the small samples.
