Controlling the Thermomechanical Properties of Polymer Nanocomposites by Tailoring the Polymer–Particle InterfaceWe show that the thermomechanical properties of polymer nanocomposites are critically affected by polymer-particle wetting behavior. Silica nanoparticles grafted with dense polystyrene brushes of degree of polymerization 1050 are blended with polystyrene melts to form nanocomposites. It was found that low molecular weight (MW) polystyrene melts with lengths <880 wet these particles. Concurrently, the glass transition temperature (Tg) of the nanocomposite increases. At higher MW, the matrix does not wet the particles and the Tg decreases. Keywords: blending; glass transition; nanocomposites; reinforcement ['It is now well known that an overlayer (matrix) polymer will dewet a chemically identical planar brush layer, as long as Ngraft << Nmatrix, and when the brush grafting density, σ, follows σ2Nmatrix >> 1 (N is the chain length). This result is a direct consequence of the unfavorable osmotic pressure penalty associated with the infiltration of high molecular weight chains into a dense brush.
1–11 Similar behavior has been postulated for polymer brushes on curved surfaces.
12 Since the glass transition of a planar thin polymer film is known to be affected by surface interactions, by analogy, we propose that dispersion of ‘‘hairy’’ nanoparticles into a polymer matrix will allow us to readily tune the thermomechanical properties of the resulting nanocomposite.
 One of the thermomechanical properties of a polymer, which can be profoundly affected by nanofiller is the glass transition temperature (Tg).13–19 It has been reported that a polymer’s Tg can change by as much as ±30 °C due to the addition of nanofiller.
 18 This is particularly relevant because the elastic modulus, hardness, conductivity, and various other physical properties change by several orders of magnitude in the vicinity of Tg.
 Facile tuning of nanocomposite Tg could thus allow us to control the usable temperature range of these materials.
 However, the physics underpinning this behavior remains unresolved, primarily due to the poor understanding of the effect of particle/matrix interactions on the polymer matrix behavior.
 Our recent results have focused on developing a broader understanding in this area.
13 For untreated silica surfaces, which are nonwetting to polystyrene, we showed that the Tg decrease with increasing filler content (or decreasing interparticle spacing) closely tracks the results obtained for planar free standing films.
 In contrast, for PS-grafted (N = 1500, σ ~ 0.57 chains/nm2) silica surfaces that provide intimate surface-polymer contact, the changes in Tg with filler content follow the trends for capped surfaces (i.
e.
, no change in Tg with filler content). This study focuses on extending this fundamental understanding to studying the progressive dewetting of the matrix from the surfaces of hairy nanoparticles as Nmatrix is systematically increased.
 Further, changes in Tg closely track the dewetting phenomena and provide a direct link between the nature of the interface and thermomechanical properties.
 '].
['Optical micrographs of PS films of various molecular weights atop a layer of SiO2-g-PS nanoparticles (MW = 110,000 g/mol) are shown in Figure 3. It can be seen that PS films with MW = 42,000 g/mol wet the surface of SiO2-g-PS nanoparticles.
 As the MW is increased to 92,000 g/mol, partial dewetting is observed.
 For a MW of 250,000 g/mol, complete dewetting of the PS films is observed.
 Thus, dewetting occurs for PS films with MW = 92,000 g/mol. Many investigations have focused on understanding the wetting behavior of PS films on planar PS brushes.
 While different substrate chemistry7 and preparation methods5 yield slightly different answers, it is well accepted that wetting autophobicity dominates when either Mmatrix >> Mgraft, or when r2Nmatrix >> 1. This result has been captured using mean field theories.
21,22 For our chain lengths, dewetting occurs even when Mmatrix < Mgraft, suggesting that the second condition is operational in these situations.
 For MW= 40,000 g/mol, where wetting behavior is observed, σ2 Nmatrix ~ 30. For MW = 92,000 g/mol, this quantity is ~70. For these curved brushes, therefore, dewetting is found to occur for σ2Nmatrix >70. A quantitative justification for this result from theory is unavailable at this time.
 The only other result known for curved brushes is from Shull et al.,23 who reported that PS-PVP micelles preferentially segregated to the surface of a PS melt because Mgraft < Mmatrix.
 To evaluate the effect of the variation in interfacial properties on matrix molecular weight, we studied the Tg of SiO2-g-PS/PS nanocomposites.
 For Mmatrix < 78,000 g/mol, where wetting is observed for the film (Fig.
 3), an increase in Tg of the nanocomposites is found (Fig.
 4). For Mmatrix = 78,000 g/ mol, there is no change in Tg with silica content suggesting that these nanocomposites have a neutral interface.
 For the two MWs > 78,000 g/mol, where dewetting is observed, the Tg decreases with increasing filler content.
 4(b)] decrease monotonically with the matrix molecular weight, implying a direct connection with the progression of wetting behavior at the particle interface with this variable.
 The dispersion of SiO2-g-PS nanoparticles in various PS matrices of different MWs is good in all cases, and thus is not the underlying source of the results.
 24 For the lowest Mmatrix and highest silica contents, we find that the increase in Tg is at most 2.5 °C, much smaller than the measured value (6 °C). While this effect might somewhat reduce at the molecular weight at which the neutral condition is found, our overall conclusions in Figure 4 stand.
 It is well known that in nanoparticle-filled polymers, a strong interfacial interaction between the matrix and filler can increase the Tg 14,18 and a nonwetting interaction can decrease the Tg.
25 Thus, a second possibility is that the low MW matrix, which strongly wets the particles, interdigitates with the brush (‘‘wet’’ brush behavior), creating a strong interface.
 Our recent results for untreated SiO2 nanoparticles yield similar findings,13 solidifying this conclusion.
 Previous work on the physics of curved brushes, pioneered by the early works of Witten and Pincus26–29 and followed up recently by Roan30,31 and by Wijmans et al.,32 suggest that the extent of chain crowding decreases monotonically with increasing distance from the surface.
 Evidence supporting this hypothesis was found for the case of the higher MW (150,000 g/mol) brush in a 250,000 g/mol molecular weight matrix, which showed no change in Tg.
13 Thus, when Mmatrix = 250,000 g/mol, it did not wet a particle with 110,000 g/mol-grafted polymer, but did wet particles with 150,000 g/molgrafted polymer.
 For the N = 1500 graft particles, the mean weight fraction of silica is about 0.05. This gives us a calculated σ ~ 0.57 chains/ nm2. For an observed error of 2% of fullscale, σ can vary from 0.39 to 0.96 chains/nm2. For the case of N = 1080, σ can vary from 0.22 to 0.37 chains/nm2 that too when not taking into account the effect of polydispersity.
 This variability precludes a robust comparison between the fillers with seemingly different σ. While the wetting behavior of spherical particles created by block copolymers are consistent with our findings,33 these previous works correspond to relatively low molecular weight brushes.
