Morphology, Thermal, and Rheological Behavior of Nylon 11/Multi-Walled Carbon Nanotube Nanocomposites Prepared by Melt CompoundingNylon 11 (PA11) nanocomposites with different loadings of multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWNTs) were prepared by melt compounding. Scanning electron microscopy images on the fracture surfaces of the composites showed a uniform dispersion of MWNTs throughout the matrix. The presence of the MWNTs significantly improved the thermal stability and enhanced the storage modulus (G′) of the polymer matrix. Melt rheology studies showed that, compared with neat PA11, the incorporation of MWNT into the matrix resulted in higher complex viscosities (|η*|), storage modulus (G′), loss modulus (G″), and lower loss factor (tanδ). PA11 and its nanocomposites containing less than 1 wt% MWNTs showed similar frequency dependencies and reached a Newtonian plateau at low frequencies. For the nanocomposite with 2 wt% MWNTs, the regional network was destroyed and the orientation of the MWNTs during shearing exhibited a very strong shear thinning effect. The complex viscosities (|η*|) of the nanocomposites are larger than that of neat PA11 and decreased with increasing the temperature. ['Carbon nanotubes (CNTs) are considered to be one kind of ideal one-dimensional reinforcing fillers for fabricating high-performance polymer composites because of their nano-scale diameter, high aspect ratio, and unique physical properties (such as excellent mechanical strength, thermal and electrical conductivities) [1]. Many researchers have concentrated on the fabrication of CNT reinforced polymer composites [2, 3]. At present, three main processing techniques have usually been used to prepare polymer/CNT composites: solution mixing or coagulation [4–7], melt compounding [8–14], and in-situ polymerization [15–19]. In addition, latex technology [20, 21] and solid-state shear pulverization [22, 23] are also applied to fabricate polymer/CNT nanocomposites.
 Among these preparation approaches, melt compounding has been accepted as the simplest and most effective method from an industrial perspective because it is regarded as the most potential way to fabricate high-performance composites with mass production.
 To achieve good performance, homogeneous dispersion of the nanotubes in the polymer matrix and strong interfacial interaction between nanotubes and polymer are currently two major challenges.
 Polyamide is one kind of the most important engineering thermoplastics, which is the most widely used because of its high strength, elasticity, toughness, and abrasion resistance.
 Recently, Liu et al. successfully prepared nylon 6 (PA6)/multiwalled carbon nanotube (MWNT) nanocomposites by a simple melt compounding method and a homogeneous dispersion of MWNTs and strong interfacial adhesion between MWNTs and PA6 were achieved [14]. The yield strength and Young’s modulus of PA6 matrix were increased by about 214% and 162%, respectively, by incorporating only 2 wt% MWNTs.
 Chen et al. fabricated PA6/MWNT-NH2 composites with different MWNT loadings by melt compounding and they also observed a uniform dispersion of MWNTs and a strong interfacial adhesion with the matrix [24]. Upon adding MWNTs, the Young’s modulus and tensile strength of PA6 were greatly improved.
 Nylon 610 composites containing well-dispersed MWNTs were successfully produced via in-situ interfacial polymerization [25]. Tensile tests showed an increase of the Young’s modulus by about 170% and slight increases in the tensile strength and the elongation at break (by about 40% and 25%, respectively). Po¨tschke et al. investigated the rheological properties of the CNT/polycarbonate composites [26]. It was found that the increase in the viscosities for the composites filled with CNTs was higher than that for the polymer composites filled with carbon fibers or carbon blacks.
 Huang et al. monitored the processes of nanotube mixing and dispersion by studying the rheological behavior, and observed a critical time (t*) to achieve satisfactory dispersion of nanotubes [27]. Nylon 11 (PA11) is an important commercial polyamide with excellent piezoelectricity and mechanical properties and thus widely used in a large range of industrial fields from automotive to offshore applications.
 The glass transition temperature (Tg) of PA11 is about 42°C, and the melting temperature (Tm) is about 184°C [28]. PA11 has multiple crystal forms (i.
e.
, polymorphism), which are greatly dependent on the thermal history and thus closely related to the piezoelectric and ferroelectric responses [29, 30]. In our previous work, the preparation and characterization of PA11/clay nanocomposites have been investigated [31]. To our knowledge, no report on PA11/ carbon nanotube composites has been reported yet in the literature.
 In this study, a series of PA11 nanocomposites with different contents of MWNTs has been prepared by melt compounding.
 The dispersion morphology of MWNTs and the effect of MWNT addition on the thermal stability, dynamic mechanical and melt rheological properties of PA11 matrix are investigated.
'].
 1). The homogeneously dispersed bright dots throughout the PA11 matrix are attributed to the ends of the broken MWNTs because of their high conductivity.
 It can be also seen that upon failure most of the MWNTs were broken apart, while many of them were still in the matrix, indicating that a strong interfacial adhesion between MWNTs and PA11 matrix and a sufficient load transfer from the polymer to the nanotubes were achieved.
 ##Thermal Stability The thermal stability of neat PA11 and nanocomposites has been investigated using TGA, as shown in Fig.
 2. The Fig.
 2b clearly shows that the onset (at weight loss of 5%) of decomposition temperature is gradually improved with the concentration of carbon nanotubes up to 1 wt%, the composite containing 1 wt% carbon nanotubes has the best thermal stability and the decomposition temperature is improved about 20°C.
 At higher MWNT content (such as 2 wt%), however, the nanocomposite degrades at lower temperature, compared with the case of the nanocomposites containing lower CNT contents (such as 0.5 and 1.0 wt%), probably due to the aggregation of MWNTs in the composites with higher CNT concentrations.
 Generally speaking, the PA11/MWNT composites exhibit higher decomposition temperature than neat PA11. The improvement of thermal stability of PA11 by incorporating CNTs is probably due to two facts: (1) the superior thermal stability of CNT nanofillers, which promotes the stability of polymer matrix via the formation of protecting layers or chars during decomposition process; (2) the excellent thermal conductivity of CNTs.
 It was reported that the enhanced thermal conductivity of a composite can facilitate heat transport and increase its thermal stability through the incorporation of high thermal conducting MWNTs [33, 34]. ##Dynamic Mechanical Properties Figure 3 shows the dynamic mechanical behavior of PA11 and its composites with different contents of MWNTs.
 3b is the storage modulus values at 225°C as a function of MWNT concentration.
 The storage modulus (1.97 GPa) for the nanocomposite containing 2 wt % MWNTs exhibits an increment by about 54%, compared with that (1.28 GPa) of neat PA11. The significant improvement in storage modulus of PA11/MWNT nanocomposites is ascribed to the combination of reinforcement effect and fine dispersion of high-performance MWNTs with high aspect ratio.
 ##Melt Rheological Behavior The complex viscosities, |η*|, of neat PA11 and the nanocomposites at 190°C are shown in Fig.
 4. The nanocomposites are more viscous than neat PA11, even at high frequencies.
 It is very interesting to note that the viscosity curves for the nanocomposites containing 0.2, 0.5, and 1 wt% MWNTs show Newtonian plateaus at low frequency.
 Therefore, the presence of carbon nanotubes impedes the motion of the polymer chains which results in an increase in the shear viscosity and narrow Newtonian plateau region [35]. However, for the studied nanotube contents (from 0.2 to 2 wt%), the curve has a steep slope at low frequency and almost no Newtonian plateau is observed in the whole frequency range investigated.
 Thus, it seems that the nanocomposite containing 2 wt% nanotubes exhibits a very strong shear thinning effect; whereas, neat PA11 shows slight frequency dependence.
 The individual MWNT and/or its bundles in PA11 matrix tend to orient under strong shear force for higher CNT loading level, thus destructing the formation of the polymer chain entanglements and the MWNT network, which results in strong shear thinning behavior for PA11/CNT composites.
 5. It can be seen that at low frequencies, there is a moderate increase in viscosity for the CNT loading up to 1 wt%, which is followed by a remarkable increase in viscosity for higher CNT content (i.
, 2 wt%). The increase in complex viscosity with nanotube concentration is primarily caused by a dramatic increase in the storage modulus (G′), as can be seen in Fig.
 6a.
 The corresponding increase in the loss modulus (G″) at 190°C (as an example) is much lower, as shown in Fig.
 6b, as a function of frequency.
 Indeed, it has been reported that the viscosities of confined polymer melts are greater than those of bulk chains [26]. The variation of loss factor, tan(δ) (that is, G″/G′), with frequency for neat PA11 and its composites is shown in Fig.
 7. It can be seen that the tan(δ) decreases with increasing the MWNT loading, indicating that the elastic properties are improved by introducing MWNTs into PA11 matrix and such a decrease in loss factor is more significant at low frequency.
 In addition, compared with neat PA11, the tan(δ) maximum of PA11 composites gradually shifted to lower frequency with increasing CNT concentration, probably implying the changes in the microstructures and the formation of regional network structures.
 And the tan(δ) maximum of the composite containing 2 wt% is not evident in the frequency range investigated.
 Compared with neat PA11, the glass transition (Tg) of the composite containing 2 wt% MWNTs is not that obvious to identify by using differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) under the same experimental condition (not shown here for abbreviation), probably indicating that the mobility of polymer chains is constrained by the presence of MWNTs.
 Figure 8 shows the frequency dependence of the complex viscosity for neat PA11 and its composite containing 1.0 wt% MWNT (as an example) at different temperatures.
 It is worth noting that PA11 exhibits Newtonian behavior, and the values of |η*| decrease with increasing the temperature, as is expected for most linear polymers.
 The |η*| of the nanocomposite containing 1.0 wt% CNT shows shear thinning behavior over the entire range of angular frequencies tested.
 It is obvious that the values of |η*| for the nanocomposites are higher than those of neat PA11, and also decrease with increasing the temperature.
