Anisotropic self-assembly of spherical polymer-grafted nanoparticles It is easy to understand the self-assembly of particles with anisotropic shapes or interactions (for example, cobalt nanoparticles or proteins) into highly extended structures. However, there is no experimentally established strategy for creating a range of anisotropic structures from common spherical nanoparticles. We demonstrate that spherical nanoparticles uniformly grafted with macromolecules (‘nanoparticle amphiphiles’) robustly self-assemble into a variety of anisotropic superstructures when they are dispersed in the corresponding homopolymer matrix. Theory and simulations suggest that this self-assembly reflects a balance between the energy gain when particle cores approach and the entropy of distorting the grafted polymers. The effectively directional nature of the particle interactions is thus a many-body emergent property. Our experiments demonstrate that this approach to nanoparticle self-assembly enables considerable control for the creation of polymer nanocomposites with enhanced mechanical properties. Grafted nanoparticles are thus versatile building blocks for creating tunable and functional particle superstructures with significant practical applications. [' Controlling the dispersion of nanoparticles into polymer matrices is a significant challenge in achieving the pronounced property improvements promised by polymer nanocomposites1. However, it is often difficult to achieve this goal as inorganic particles are typically immiscible with an organic phase 2,3,4. One strategy to overcome this difficulty is to ‘shield’ the particle surface by grafting it with the same chains as the matrix polymer5,6,7,8. Although this approach for particle dispersion is successful in some cases, we find instead that the particles can exhibit self-assembly into highly anisotropic structures.
 This process arises because the immiscible particle core and grafted polymer layer attempt to phase separate but are constrained by chain connectivity—this is evidently analogous to ‘microphase separation’ in block copolymers and other amphiphiles.
 Similar to these amphiphiles, these particles with a ‘polarizable’ segmental cloud can self-assemble under a broad range of conditions into a variety of superstructures.
 We also show that this type of particle self-assembly can have strongly beneficial effects on the mechanical properties of the resulting nanocomposite.
  By way of context, we note that there has been considerable interest in using particle self-assembly as a ‘bottom-up’ route to material assembly9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17. The most direct strategy for the creation of anisotropic assemblies is to use either anisotropically shaped particles, or spherical particles with directional interactions11,16,17,18. The geometry of the assemblies is thus largely encoded at the level of a single particle.
 Similarly, flow and other non-equilibrium effects (especially irreversible agglomeration as in the case of carbon black particles) can also be used to assemble particles19,20,21,22,23,24. Instead, here we focus on the quiescent assembly of particles that possess no such obvious anisotropies, that is, spherical particles with bare isotropic interactions.
 It is now well documented that spherical nanoparticles decorated with short alkanes assemble at high loadings into stripes on a substrate25 or into non-equilibrium gels in three dimensions14,26. Simulations show that the competition between a short-ranged attraction and a long-ranged repulsive interaction between nanoparticles can rationalize these experiments27,28. More relevant to our work are simulations on aqueous solutions of hydrophobic fullerenes uniformly grafted with hydrophilic polyethyleneoxide chains.
 These simulations show amphiphile-like behaviour and form particle chains and branched objects at equilibrium13,29. This phenomenon was interpreted as arising from the propensity for the hydrophobic particle cores to contact each other to shield themselves from water.
 This process is evidently facilitated by two particles forcing the polyethyleneoxide chains ‘out of their way’, resulting in an effective ‘dipolar’ interparticle potential, and anisotropic self-assembly.
 To our knowledge, there is no experimental verification that such uniformly grafted particles can exhibit such self-assembly behaviour.
 '].
