Effects of dispersion and interfacial modification on the macroscale properties of TiO2 polymer–matrix nanocomposites This paper quantifies how the quality of dispersion and the quality of the interfacial interaction between TiO2 nanoparticles and host polymer independently affect benchmark properties such as glass transition temperature (Tg), elastic modulus and loss modulus. By examining these composites with differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), dynamic mechanical analysis (DMA) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM), we demonstrate changes in properties depending on the adhesive/wetting or repulsive/dewetting interactions the nanoparticles have with the bulk polymer. We further quantify the dispersion of TiO2 nanoparticles in polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) matrices by a digital–optical method and correlate those values to the degree of Tg depression compared to neat PMMA. Samples with the same weight percent of nanoparticles but better dispersion show larger shifts in Tg. Keywords A. Polymer–matrix composites (PMCs) A. Nanocomposites B. Interphase B. Thermomechanical properties [' The field of composites is undergoing a transformation from the use of traditional fillers (e.
g.
 carbon fiber) to nanoscale fillers that add unique and often multifunctional properties to the neat polymer.
 Because nanoparticles have extremely high surface area to volume ratios and alter the mobility of polymer chains near their interfaces, even a small addition of nanoparticles has the potential to drastically transform the properties of the host polymer.
 While the last decade has seen several advancements in the field of nanocomposites, some recent reviews have made it clear that definitive structure–property relationships are still lacking in the literature [1], [2], [3], [4]. In this paper, we establish quantitative links between dispersion and interphase with mechanical and thermal properties as a step toward exacting control over these systems and intentionally designing nanocomposites with optimal macroscale properties for a given application.
  There are a myriad of variables that ultimately influence a nanocomposite’s properties.
 These variables include the quality of dispersion [3], [4], [5], interfacial adhesion [1], [2], [6], [7], [8], extent of interphase [3], [6], [9], processing methods [2], [10], loading of the particles [2], modification of the surfaces of nanoparticles [4], [5], [11], aspect ratio of particles [2], [3], [5], compatibility of particle and host polymer [1], size of particles [12], radius of gyration of the host polymer [13], and the properties of the constituents [2], [14]. In order for researchers to design a composite with predictable properties, it is necessary to first delineate the exact influence of each of these factors and then control them.
 The interaction of these factors also makes it difficult to compare results between groups.
 As one example, Haggenmueller et al. demonstrated a 6% increase in elastic modulus for PMMA with 1 wt% single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWNTs) [15] while Ramanathan et al. demonstrated a 50% increase in elastic modulus for PMMA with 1 wt% SWNT and an 86% increase in elastic modulus for 1 wt% amide-functionalized SWNTs [9]. Ramanathan et al. attribute the discrepancy to insufficient dispersion of nanotubes or a weaker interphase in Haggenmueller’s case, but the authors were unable to provide any direct evidence.
 From these and other examples [16], [17], [18], [19], it is evident that the properties of nanocomposites are highly sensitive to both the quality of dispersion and interphase and that small changes in processing conditions, particle size, or chemistry dramatically affect these two key factors.
  The interphase has been extensively studied in nanocomposites, leading to an understanding of this region as an area of altered polymer chain dynamics near the surface of the nanoparticles [20], [21], [22]. Surface atoms are at a higher energy state than atoms within the interior of a material making them more interactive with surrounding molecules.
 In nanocomposites, polymer molecules near the interactive surface of nanoparticles experience a reduction in mobility when attracted to the nanoparticles and a concomitant increase in mobility when repelled by the nanoparticles due to increased regions of free volume.
 Since nanoparticles have extremely high surface area to volume ratios (1000 times greater than micrometer-sized particles), only a few weight or volume percent additions are needed to transform the properties of the entire polymer [20], [21]. The quality of the interaction between the nanoparticles and the bulk polymer (attractive/repulsive interphase) is hypothesized in this paper to alter the mechanical and thermal properties of the host polymer.
  From our previous studies, we measured the static water contact angle of TiO2 as 10° indicating a hydrophilic surface [23]. Since PMMA is hydrophobic, the interaction between the TiO2 nanoparticles and the surrounding PMMA is repulsive.
 To create an attractive interaction, we modified our nanoparticles with a biomimetic initiator modeled after 3,4-dihydroxy-l-phenylalanine (dopa), an amino acid that is highly concentrated in mussel foot adhesive proteins [24], [25]. In a previous study, we showed that the dopa to metal–oxide bond is strong and reversible even in the presence of water [26] leaving open the possibility that this surface modification will demonstrate hydrolytic stability.
 Further demonstrating the adhesive nature of dopa, we performed pull-out tests of metal wires from PMMA and shown an increase in maximum interfacial adhesion of 116% for NiTi wires and 60% for Ti–6Al–4 V wires from a PMMA matrix when modified by dopa-initiator [23].  In addition to the interfacial interactions between the nanoparticles and the bulk polymer, it is hypothesized that the quality of dispersion has a significant influence on the bulk properties of nanocomposites.
 While many researchers have mentioned dispersion as an important factor in determining a nanocomposite’s properties, few have examined dispersion explicitly in their experiments and even fewer have attempted to quantify it [19], [27], [28], [29], [30], [31]. Bansal et al. addressed this issue directly when they demonstrated depressions in Tg with decreasing interparticle distance for silica nanoparticles in polystyrene (PS) [32]. In this system, the non-wetting behavior of the matrix led to increased molecular mobility.
 At the same time, Tg suppression was not observed for silica nanoparticles grafted with PS chains in bulk PS.
 An important concept in their work is relationship between the Tg values in thin polymer films (free standing, supported, or sandwiched) and the Tg values of nanocomposites.
 The authors found that a simple two-layer model was not enough to explain the experimental results and that the interaction effects of altered domains must play a role in determining Tg.
  To elucidate the impact that both the interphase and the degree of dispersion of the nanoparticles have on bulk properties, we quantified these factors separately for our TiO2–polymer composites.
 Other researchers have studied TiO2-polymer composites for potential applications in photovoltaics/solar cells [33], [34], fuel cells [35], [36] and batteries [37], but to the best of our knowledge no studies quantifying the effects of interfacial interaction and dispersion on mechanical and thermal properties of these composites have been previously reported.
 First, we show that by tuning the interfacial conditions with a mimic of mussel adhesive protein so that there is an attractive interaction between nanoparticles and bulk polymer, we can increase the values of several properties including glass transition temperature and elastic modulus.
 Second, utilizing image processing software, we focus on the degree of dispersion of the nanoparticles to determine its influence on the glass transition temperature of the composites.
 We show that the quality of dispersion shifts Tg in TiO2–PMMA composites.
'].
['##3.1. Biomimetic modification of interphase correlated with glass transition temperature (Tg)  A biomimetic surface functionalization inspired by mussel adhesion was employed to create nanoparticles with an attractive/wetting interaction with polymer.
 1 shows images of dewetting around a cluster of TiO2 nanoparticles in PMMA as well as an attractive interaction between a cluster of TiO2 nanoparticles modified with our biomimetic initiator and the surrounding PMMA.
 2 shows normalized tan delta curves obtained from the DMA for three types of composites: 2 wt% TiO2 in PMMA, PMMA, and 2 wt% dopa-mimetic modified TiO2 in PMMA.
 2, the sample of 2 wt% unmodified TiO2 in PMMA demonstrates a broadening of the tan delta peak towards lower temperatures.
 In contrast, the sample of 2 wt% modified TiO2 in PMMA shows a tan delta peak shift towards higher temperatures because relation modes affecting Tg are delayed.
 This result is not only indicative of a strong interaction between the modified nanoparticles and the surrounding polymer, but the shift of the peak also gives indirect evidence that the interphase region has percolated through the entire composite [16].  ##3.2. Biomimetic modification of interphase correlated with elastic modulus  We further examined the elastic modulus (E′) for our unmodified and modified samples using a DMA temperature ramp test and compared these results to the modulus values predicted by the Mori Tanaka method [39]. The micromechanics calculations treated the nanoparticles as ideally dispersed with 3D random orientation and isotropic properties and assumed that the interfacial bonding between the nanoparticles and bulk polymer was perfect.
 3, the effective modulus of the composite (Ec′) is normalized against the modulus of the polymer matrix (Ep′). Experimentally, we recorded the E′ values in the glassy regime (30 °C) and in the rubbery regime (140 °C) for 14 samples of 2 wt% TiO2 in PMMA.
 3, the experimental results are compared to the effective modulus predicted by the micromechanics calculations for inclusions shaped as spheres, rods and sheets.
 3A and B, spheres (aspect ratio of 1) have a much smaller reinforcing ability compared to rods (aspect ratios of 1000 and 100) or sheets (aspect ratios of 1/1000 and 1/100). The model predicts that the incorporation of only 2.5 wt% of sheets (1000 nm × 1000 nm × 1 nm) are needed for the modulus of the composite (Ec′) to be three times larger than the modulus of the polymer (Ep′) at 140 °C.
 However, for the same improvement with spheres at 140 °C, over 80 wt% is needed.
 Remarkably, however, our biomimetic interfacial modification on spherical nanoparticles led to an experimental value of Ec′/Ep′ that significantly exceeds the value predicted for spheres by the Mori Tanaka method at both 30 °C and 140 °C and approaches the behavior of high aspect ratio nanosheets (Fig.
 3A and B). Since the predictions used only inherent moduli of the bulk matrix material and the nanoparticles, this data suggests the existence of a significant polymer interphase region near our modified nanoparticles.
 For 2 wt% TiO2–PMMA composites (0.5 vol%), the theoretical nearest neighbor distance between centers of particles is 165 nm assuming a perfectly periodic dispersion of nanoparticles with a mean diameter of 35 nm.
 For percolation of the interphase across this idealized composite, the interphase would need to extend at least 65 nm from the surface of the nanoparticles.
 By utilizing an image processing tool to obtain the coordinates of nanoclusters in SEM images of the nanocomposites, we found an actual mean nearest neighbor distance of 200–300 nm for the 2 wt% TiO2–PMMA samples (0.5 vol%). In the experimental case, one would need the interphase region to extend 83–133 nm from the surface of the nanoparticles for percolation.
 It is reasonable that there are higher values needed for percolation in the experimental case (83–133 nm) compared to the values needed for percolation in the perfectly periodic case (65 nm) because micromechanics and finite element simulations have shown that the minimum interphase thickness for percolation is slightly higher in a random distribution than in a periodic one [40].  The complete shift in tan delta location in Fig.
 2 gives indirect evidence of percolation for the modified composites whereas the broadening of the tan delta peak gives indirect evidence that percolation has not been achieved for the unmodified composites.
 However, the theoretical interphase thickness for a periodic array (65 nm) and derived from our experiments (83–133 nm) needed for percolation at 2 wt% (0.5 vol%) are reasonable as Rittigstein et al. utilized model nanocomposites to demonstrate that the length scale at which confinement effects are observed for attractive interactions can be several hundreds of nanometers [41]. ##3.3. Dispersion of nanoparticles correlated with glass transition temperature  In this section, we correlate the dispersion of nanoparticles to the glass transition temperature of the composites.
 Initially, we created several samples of 0.5–20 wt% TiO2 in PMMA and measured their Tg by DSC.
 4 summarizes the mean Tg for each type of composite and illustrates a general trend of decreasing Tg with increased loading of unmodified TiO2. As TiO2 loading increases from 0.5 wt% to 20 wt%, there is a 50-fold increase in the surface area available for either attractive/wetting or repulsive/dewetting interactions with the bulk polymer leading to changes in molecular mobility (shown qualitatively in Fig.
 1). In our unmodified system, the TiO2 nanoparticles have a repulsive interaction with the surrounding polymer and therefore there is an increase in free volume and chain mobility near the particles.
 Consequently, the Tg of the bulk polymer shifts to lower temperatures with the addition of unmodified TiO2 nanoparticles as it takes less energy to transition from the glassy to the rubbery regime.
 4 gives us a correlation between weight percent and Tg, we are also interested in uncovering a correlation between dispersion and Tg.
 For each ∼100 nm thick slice, up to 12 SEM images were analyzed.
 The mean distance between the centroid of each agglomerate within each image is calculated using,(1)where n is the total number of agglomerates in the image, (xj, yj) are the coordinates of the agglomerate of interest, and (xi, yi) are the coordinates of every other agglomerate in the image.
 To avoid errors due to the edge of the image, we screened 25% of the area along the perimeter of each image and collect dj only for the inner subset of agglomerates.
 (1) yields an array of mean distances between the centroids of each agglomerate in an image, dj.
 However, the mean distance between agglomerates, D, for each image still needed to be calculated:(2)  Finally, the mean distance between agglomerates for each type of sample, A, was determined by averaging D across the number of SEM Images analyzed, N:(3)  Values of A for 2 wt% modified TiO2 in PMMA, PMMA, 2 wt% unmodified TiO2 in PMMA, and 3 wt% TiO2 in PMMA are provided in Table 1 along with Tg.
 It is important to note that A is the average distance between agglomerates and should not be confused with the mean nearest neighbor distance that was reported earlier to be 200–300 nm.
  An examination of Table 1 shows that substantive differences in Tg were observed even when weight percent (volume percent) were held constant and even though experimental processing conditions were held constant from batch-to-batch.
 For instance, sample 1 of 2 wt% modified TiO2 in PMMA had a Tg of 119.2 °C while sample 2 had a Tg of 120.7 °C.
  A close examination of the relationship between Tg and A for each type of sample reveals the beginning of a trend in Table 1. The dispersion of the nanoparticles is quantified by the mean distance between agglomerates with better dispersion marked by smaller values of A.
 For the samples of 2 wt% modified TiO2 in PMMA in Table 1, a decrease in A yielded an increase in Tg due to the adhesive interfacial region.
 For the samples of 2 wt% TiO2 in PMMA, no statistical difference was observed for Tg or A.
 For the samples of 3 wt% TiO2 in PMMA, a decrease in A yielded a decrease in Tg due to the repulsive interfacial region.
 5 provides a look at the fractured samples of 3 wt% TiO2 in PMMA.
 Image A is from sample 1 in Table 1 with a mean Tg of 110.5 °C and image B is from sample 2 and has a mean Tg of 116.6 °C.
 5 shows that fracture emanated from each cluster of nanoparticles and left behind a pattern of ridges or crazes that serve to bridge the polymer just before complete fracture.
 Crazing is known to nucleate from defects in highly stressed glassy polymers such as PMMA or polystyrene (PS) that have low fracture toughness associated with the breakdown of the van der Vaals forces [42]. Sample 1, which has a finer dispersion of TiO2 agglomerates based on the fracture surface imaging in Fig.
 5, has a smaller mean distance between agglomerates, A, of 4.16 ± 0.14 μm compared to sample 2 which has an A value of 4.60 ± 0.29 μm.
 The smaller distance between TiO2 clusters in sample 1 indicates there is more nanoparticle surface area available for contact with the bulk polymer.
 In a composite with a repulsive/dewetting interaction between nanoparticles and host polymer, such as in our TiO2–PMMA systems, this increased surface area results in a larger depression in Tg.
