Thermal stability and thermal degradation kinetics (model-free kinetics) of nanocomposites based on poly (lactic acid)/graphene: the influence of functionalization Thermal stability and thermal degradation kinetics of nanocomposites play an important role in many applications. In this study, nanocomposites based on poly (lactic acid) (PLA)/graphene containing 0.5 and 1 wt% were prepared via solution method. Functionalized graphene were prepared by acid treatment followed by grafting PLA on their surfaces. The functionalized graphene was characterized using fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), Raman, elemental analysis, Fourier transform infrared attenuated total reflection (FTIR-ATR), Dynamic mechanical thermal analysis (DMTA) and thermogravimetry analysis (TGA). The results revealed a successful functionalization reaction. The morphology of nanocomposites was investigated by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Thermal kinetics of samples was studied using TGA in multiple heating rates (5, 10, 20 and 30 °C/min). Flynn–Wall–Ozawa (FWO) and Vyazovkin (VYZ) methods were considered as isoconversional models. Although the assumptions of the applied models were different, there was a good agreement between the models and obtained activation energies. [' Due to their desirable features including sustainability, eco-friendly and biodegradability, poly (lactic acid) (PLA) has been attractive in polymer industries as a new class of materials.
 PLA can be a suitable candidate to use in packaging, fibers, membranes, tissue engineering, automotive parts and electrical devices.
 To broaden the application of PLA, tailoring its properties has been considered by researchers [1–5]. Copolymerization and compounding with other polymers and additives are the two main strategies for modification of PLA properties.
 In addition, many attempts have been focused on incorporation of low amounts of nanoparticles into the PLA matrix.
 Among different types of nanoparticles, graphene nanoplatelets (GNp) show unique properties and can improve mechanical, electrical and thermal properties of PLA [6–8].  GNp can be a good alternative for conductive carbon fillers in nanocomposites, due to its high aspect ratio, easy production and excellent conductivity.
 The enhancement of mechanical, physical, thermal and barrier properties in nanocomposites containing graphene has been reported in the literatures [9–12]. Uniform dispersion of fillers plays the main role in the improvement of physical and mechanical properties.
 Due to mismatching and nature of graphene with most polymers, a good dispersion has not been obtained thus functionalization is an inevitable process.
 In comparison with non-functionalized GNp, functionalized graphene nanoplatelets (FGNp) have many oxygen-containing groups on their surfaces.
 These functional groups not only provide proper dispersion of FGNp in polymers, but also facilitate the interaction between the matrices and FGNp through covalent bonds.
 The first step in functionalization is oxidation using acid treatment.
 Characterization of oxidized graphene has revealed that existence of epoxide and hydroxyl groups at the surface of the FGNp together with carbonyl and carboxyl groups located at the edges enables the nanoplatelets to be readily grafted with different groups.
 Grafting of various functional groups such as ester and amine is the second step and has usually been carried out using acylation reaction [13, 14].  Kinetic study of the thermal degradation can be used to assess the reliability of the materials for high-temperature applications.
 The triplet kinetic parameters such as activation energy (E a), pre-exponential factor (A) and reaction model (n) of thermal degradation of polymers give useful information about the decomposition mechanism [15]. To calculate the kinetic parameters, the International Confederation of Thermal Analysis and Calorimetry (ICTAC) insisted on using the multiple heating rate processes, then avoided single heating rate methods and later suggested some recommendations for performing kinetic computations on thermal analysis data [16]. Conversion function (f(α)) and the activation energy have been determined via the various methods.
 Generally, these methods can be divided into two categories: I.
 isoconversional and II.
 model-fitting methods.
 Isoconversional method can be explained as model-free method in which there are no changes of conversion function with the variation of the heating rate for whole ranges of the degree of conversion (α).  To determine the kinetic triplets using multiple heating rate tests, model-fitting kinetic methods can be used.
 In this method, the obtained data for non-isothermal condition are not comparable with those of isothermal condition [17, 18]. One of the best free approaches is Vyazovkin model through use of isoconversion method leads to an authentic way of obtaining kinetic information from non-isothermal data using thermal analysis.
  Thermal degradation kinetics of nanocomposites based on biodegradable polymers has gained an important role in processing and applications at high temperatures.
 Effect of carbon nanotube, functionalized carbon nanotube, hydroxyapatite, calcium carbonate and graphene on kinetics of degradation has been studied by researchers [19–23]. Kim et al. reported the effect of calcium carbonate on the thermal degradation kinetics of PLA/calcium carbonate nanocomposites by different models.
 They revealed that the activation energy of nanocomposite samples was lower than that of neat PLA due to the basic nature of calcium carbonate and its catalytic effect on depolymerization of the PLA ester bonds [21]. The similar results have been reported by Barrosso-Bujans et al. for the nanocomposites based on polyethylene oxide/graphene.
 They attributed this trend to the linear structure of polyethylene oxide and showed that thermal degradation follows the first-order reaction [22]. The contradictory result has been reported by Chrissafis for PLA/oxidized multiwalled carbon nanotube in which the nanocomposite samples had higher activation energy compared to neat PLA.
 He believed that the presence of a complex degradation mechanism (more than two mechanisms) was the main reason for this difference [19].  This work is motivated by current researches in the thermal degradation kinetics of nanocomposites.
 We reported the functionalization of GNp and preparation of PLA/GNp and FGNp nanocomposites.
 The functionalization reaction was tracked by FTIR, thermogravimetry analysis (TGA), Raman and elemental analyses.
 The nanocomposites samples were prepared via solution method.
 Thermal stability and degradation kinetics were studied based on TGA data.
 For the first time, thermal degradation kinetics was evaluated using model-free kinetic methods for grafted nanocomposites.
 The two model-free kinetic methods (VYZ and FWO) are used to compare and evaluate the activation energies and the results were discussed.
 '].
 Figure 1 shows FTIR spectra of GNp and FGNp.
 As can be seen, the peaks at 1,707, 1,580 and 1,130 cm−1 are appeared in the spectra of FGNp, which reflected the formation of carbonyl groups [from carboxylic acids (–COOH–)], asymmetric –COO– stretch and symmetric –COO– stretch, respectively.
 In spite of existence of a small peak at 3,433 cm−1 which corresponds to hydroxyl groups in GNp, the peak was significantly strengthened after the acid treatment.
 Similar results about carbon nanotube functionalization have been reported [24, 25] and the FTIR spectra confirm that acid treatment produces oxygen-containing functional groups on the surface of GNp.
 2. As it was expected, two sharp peaks are detectable in the spectrum of carbon allotropes, which are known as D and G bands.
 The D band appears around 1,340-1,360 cm−1 which is attributed to the ring breathing modes of sp2 atoms in rings.
 The G band is an indication of bond stretching of all pairs of sp2 atoms in both rings and chains and appears around 1,585 cm−1 [26]. On the other hand, the main characteristics peaks for PLA are appeared in 1,728, 1,402, 1,242, 1,064 and 976 cm−1 and there are no overlaps between the graphene and PLA in the range of 1,300–1,500 cm−1. The intensity ratio of D and G band (I D/I G) is affected by the disordered pattern which exists in graphene platelets and is different for pristine and functionalized graphene due to the formation of defects in FGNp.
 The ratios were 1.15 and 1.39 for GNP and FGNP, respectively.
 The increase of I D/I G ratio in FGNp implies a successful functionalization reaction [27].  The next analysis for tracking GNp functionalization was TGA.
 3. There are two major mass loss steps while increasing the temperature of GNp sample.
 The mass loss around 100 °C is assigned to the removal of absorbed water and release of moisture, and the other one around 200 °C is due to the pyrolysis of the liable oxygen-containing functional groups [28]. In the range of 150–230 °C, the mass losses were 3 and 8 wt% for GNp and FGNp, respectively.
 The results of elemental analysis are listed in the Table 1. As it can be seen, the oxygen percentage of FGNp is increased due to the formation of oxygen-containing groups by acid treatment.
 Figure 4 represents the FTIR–ATR spectra for samples of PLA, PLA/GNp 1 and PLA/FGNp 1 nanocomposites.
 The ester–(COO)– stretching bond for PLA, PLA/GNp 1 and PLA/FGNp 1 was appeared at 1,761, 1,751 and 1,748 cm−1, respectively.
  Figure 5 depicts the storage modulus and loss factor (tan δ) of the sample.
 The glass transitions of the samples were calculated from slope of storage modulus (according to ASTM E1640) and depicted in Table 2. As can be seen, the glass transitions of the samples have shifted to higher temperatures due to presence of the nanoparticles.
 6. The pure PLA is characterized with smooth fractured surface without any orientation.
 6c, e).This difference may be attributed to the easier and better formation of 2D structure of PLA/FGNP which leads to better dispersion and distribution of fillers into matrix.
 6f, g with higher magnification.
 Figure 7 plots the TGA and DTG curves of the samples containing different nanoparticles at 5 °C/min under an atmosphere of nitrogen.
 To interpret thermal behavior of the samples, the maximum rate of mass loss (T p) and the onset temperatures of degradation were determined by DTG and TGA, respectively, and are summarized in Table 3. The onset temperatures were determined regarding to their mass loss shapes.
  In Table 3, T p and T onset increased with incorporation of the nanoparticles at the whole range of heating rates.
 The maximum shifting of T p and T onset to the higher temperatures was attributed to the sample containing 1 wt% of functionalized graphene.
  The integral procedure decomposition temperature (IPDT) proposed by Doyle involves the volatile parts of the polymeric materials and is used to estimate the inherent thermal stability of the polymeric materials [29–31]. IPDT was calculated as follows: IPDT (∘C)=A∗K∗(Tf−Ti)+Ti (1) A∗=(S1+S2)/(S1+S2+S3) (2) K∗=(S1+S2)/(S1), (3)  where A* is the area ratio of total experimental TGA thermogram, T i is the initial experimental temperature, T f is the final the initial experimental temperature.
 Scheme 2 shows a representation of S 1, S 2 and S 3 for calculating A* and K*.  IPDT of the samples is depicted in Table 4. IPDT of pure PLA was 338.7 °C and the IPDT of nanocomposites was higher than that of pure PLA, which indicates that the filler can improve the thermal stability of PLA.
  ##Thermal degradation kinetics  Decomposition kinetics of polymer using TGA was reported in the ICTAC kinetics committee recommendations for performing kinetic computations on thermal analysis data [16]. Useful data are obtained from this test to determine the decomposition conversion (α), which is defined as: α=m0−mTm0−mlast, (4)  where m 0, m T and m last are the initial mass, mass at decomposition temperature and mass at final decomposition reaction, respectively.
 These models are generally based on Arrhenius equation [32–35].  For non-isothermal conditions, the above equation can be rewritten as: dαdT=Aβexp(−EaRT)f(α), (5)  where α is the conversion (weight of materials volatilized/initial weight of materials), A is the pre-exponential factor, β is the heating rate (°C/min), E a is activation energy, R is gas constant, f(α) is a function of the fraction of mass or a conversion function of decomposition kinetics and T is temperature.
 (6) and a linear empirical approximation (given by Doyle [36]) was used.
 (6) is integrated with α = 0 at T = T 0 (the initial temperature) and can be assigned using the Doyle approximation [37, 38]. FWO model is expressed in the form of: [34, 39–41] logβ=−0.4567(EaRT)+(log(AEaR)−logf(α)−2.315). (6)  According to above equation, at a constant heating rate, E a can be calculated from the slope of logarithm heating rate as a function of inverse temperature.
 (5) leads to: g(α)=∫0αdαf(α)=A∫0texp(Ea(α)RT)dt=AJ[Ea(α),T], (7)  where g(α), f(α) and A are the integral form of the reaction model, the heating program and Arrhenius constant, respectively, and T(t) is also heating program.
  Some scientists made the numerical approximations to solve the temperature integrals (I and J) and the results of model-free kinetics (MFK) were significantly different, by the choice of numerical approximations [42, 43]. Vyazovkin and Dollimore proved the fact that for any β, g(α) is constant which can avoid dependence of the numerical approximation.
 Therefore, with heating rates β 1, β 2 and β 3, three integrals are achieved [g(α) β1 = g(α) β2 = g(α) β3]. Aβ1I[Ea(α),T]1=Aβ2I[Ea(α),T]2=Aβ3I[Ea(α),T]3 (8)  The summary of the equation above is given below: ∑i=1n∑j≠1nI[Ea(α),T]iβjI[Ea(α),T]jβi=6forn=3. (9)  From the above equation, activation energy for the samples can be achieved.
 Figure 8b demonstrates E a versus different conversions of degradation between 5–90 % of nanocomposite.
 Significant increment of E a values could be observed when the specimens were decomposed in the presence of N2 atmosphere.
 8b.
 8a). VYZ method also suggests that activation energy values for nanocomposites grow with the increase in the conversion.
  In literatures, the mechanism of PLA thermal degradation is complex and consists of random chain scission and unzipping depolymerization reactions [20, 44, 45]. The random degradation reaction includes hydrolysis, oxidative degradation, cis-elimination, intermolecular and intramolecular transesterification.
 By the addition of nanoparticles, at the first stage up to 40–50 % of conversion, the same trend was observed which indicates the decomposition obeys from above mechanisms.
 However, above 50 % conversion, the activation energy was leveled off which means the all mechanisms were shifted to cis-elimination with the lowest energy.
 The E a values of FGNp nanocomposites were higher than that of GNp nanocomposite, which could be attended on 2D structure and better effective surface area of the nanocomposites.
  It should be noted that the E a for the thermal degradation of PLA grafted on FGNp (162 kJ/mol) is significantly higher than that of neat PLA (133 kJ/mol). The meaningful difference between E a for PLA/GNp and neat PLA in this study suggests that polymer–graphene interactions support the rupturing of polymer bonds in pyrolysis conditions.
 It has been proved that brush-like polymers with long side chains on a substrate can induce natural rupture of covalent bonds in the polymer backbone [46]. This is not really adapted to our case, as PLA has a linear structure and degradation takes place at high temperatures, but it is likely that grafting spreads tension along the nanocomposite and these forces are intensified by the molecular motion resulting from heating.
