Comparison of theoretical predictions and experimental values of the dielectric constant of epoxy/BaTiO3 composite embedded capacitor filmsPolymer/ceramic composites are the most promising embedded capacitor material for organic substrates application. Predicting the effective dielectric constant of polymer/ceramic composites is very important for design of composite materials. In this paper, we measured the dielectric constant of epoxy/BaTiO3 composite embedded capacitor films with various BaTiO3 particles loading for 5 different sizes BaTiO3 powders. Experimental data were fitted to several theoretical equations to find the equation useful for the prediction of the effective dielectric constant of polymer/ceramic composites and also to estimate the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 powders. The Lichtenecker equation and the Jayasundere-Smith equation were useful for the prediction of the effective dielectric constant of epoxy/BaTiO3 composites. And calculated dielectric constants of the BaTiO3 powders were in the range of 100 to 600, which were lower than the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 bulk ceramics probably due to the presence of voids or pores. ['In recent, interest in passive components is increasing for miniaturization and better electrical performance of electronic packages.
 This is because the number of passive components is much more than that of active components, and is steadily growing.
 For example, the ratio of passive components to active components in mobile cellular phone is over 20 [1]. Currently most of these passive components are surface-mounted as discrete forms.
 Therefore, they take up large area of substrate, lower electrical performance due to long interconnection length, and cause reliability problem due to many solder joints.
 To solve these problems, embedded passive technology, which is to form passive components in multi-layer substrates, has been actively investigated.
 Among various kinds of passive components, special interest is focused on capacitors, because they are used in large numbers for various important functions, such as decoupling, by-passing, filtering, and timing.
 In particular, decoupling capacitors, which are used for simultaneous switching noise suppression, are considered as the most important application area of embedded capacitors [2, 3]. One of the promising embedded capacitor materials for organic substrates is a polymer/ceramic composite, which is a ceramic particle-filled polymer.
 It is a hybrid material utilizing both high dielectric constant of ceramic powders and good processability of polymers.
 It has advantages of low process temperature, low cost, and fairly good electrical performance.
 Particularly epoxy/ceramic composites have been intensively investigated due to their compatibility with printed wiring boards (PWBs) currently widely used [4–7]. Up to now, however, there are no materials meeting two important requirements, high dielectric constant and low (capacitance) tolerance, for embedded capacitors.
 Recently, epoxy/BaTiO3 composite embedded capacitor films (ECFs) have been reported for high dielectric constant and low tolerance (less than ±5%) embedded capacitors fabrication by the authors of this paper [8]. It is a B-stage and transferable film with good adhesion strength.
 It can be used for embedded capacitor fabrication on a whole area or selective areas of organic substrates.
 It is very important for composite materials design to precisely predict the effective dielectric constant of polymer/ceramic composites.
 Several quantitative rules of mixture models had been proposed for predictions of the dielectric constant of heterogeneous twocomponent systems on the basis of dielectric properties of each component [9–12]. However, while different models had been developed, usually little or no experimental evidence was provided to support the derived equations.
 Therefore it is still controversial which model is more useful for predictions of the effective dielectric constant of polymer/ceramic composites.
 Another problem in predicting the effective dielectric constant of polymer/ceramic composites using theoretical equations is the fact that the dielectric constant of ceramic powders is not available.
 When it comes to epoxy/BaTiO3 composite, the dielectric constant of epoxy can be obtained easily by capacitance measurement of an epoxy film, but there is no direct method to measure the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 powders.
 Because of this problem, in most of literatures the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 bulk ceramics has been used instead of the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 powders.
 But this is not proper, because it is not certain that the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 powders is same as that of BaTiO3 bulk ceramics and the dielectric constant of ferroelectric polycrystalline BaTiO3 changes with grain sizes at room temperature [13, 14]. According to our previous work [15], the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 powders also changes with particle sizes as the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 ceramics changes with grain sizes.
 In this paper, experimental data of the dielectric constant of epoxy/BaTiO3 composite ECFs were compared with predictions by theoretical equations.
 The dielectric constant of epoxy/BaTiO3 composite ECFs with various BaTiO3 particles loading for 5 different sizes BaTiO3 were measured and these experimental data were fitted to several theoretical equations for prediction of the effective dielectric constant of polymer/ ceramic composites As a result, the best-fitting equation was suggested and the dielectric constants of the 5 BaTiO3 powders were estimated inversely.
'].
['##4.1. Dielectric constant of epoxy/BaTiO3 composite vs.
 BaTiO3 volume fraction Fig.
 2 shows the dielectric constant of epoxy/BaTiO3 composite ECFs as a function of volume fraction of each BaTiO3 powder.
 The dielectric constant of the epoxy film (εp) with no BaTiO3 particle was measured as 4.5. As expected, the dielectric constant of epoxy/BaTiO3 composite ECFs increased with the increase in volume fraction of BaTiO3 powder.
 But it showed the maximums around 50–60 vol%, and then decreased with more powder addition.
 This reduction is presumably due to pores or voids introduced by excess powder addition [16, 17]. When we estimated the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 powders by data- fitting, only the data where the dielectric constant of epoxy/BaTiO3 composite increased with the volume fraction of BaTiO3 powder were used.
 The dielectric constants of the epoxy/BaTiO3 ECFs using S4 powder are higher than those using the other powders.
 This means that the dielectric constant of S4 powder is highest among the 5 powders.
 Particle size dependence of the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 powders was investigated in a previous paper [15]. ##4.2. Fitting to the Lichtenecker equation Equation 3 can be rewritten as log εeff = νp log εp + νc log εc = log εp + νc log(εc/εp) (8) This equation indicates that logarithm of the effective dielectric constant of epoxy/BaTiO3 composites is linearly proportional to volume fraction of BaTiO3 powder (νc), and y-intercept and slope correspond to log εp and log(εc/εp), respectively.
 Therefore the dielectric constant of epoxy (εp) can be calculated from the yintercept, and the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 powder (εc) can be calculated from the slope and the obtained εp.
 3a shows the logarithm of the dielectric constant of epoxy/BaTiO3 composite ECFs as a function of volume fraction of each BaTiO3 powder.
 The data were fitted to the Equation 8 to obtain y-intercept and slope.
 Table II shows the dielectric constants of epoxy and the 5 BaTiO3 powders calculated from the y-intercept and slope.
 The dielectric constant of S4 powder, whichwas expected to show the highest dielectric constant, was estimated to be 340, and the dielectric constant of S1 powder, the smallest, was estimated to be 176. The dielectric constants of S2, S3, and S5 powders were estimated to be 222, 250, and 275, respectively.
 These values are smaller in one order of magnitude than the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 bulk ceramics.
 3b, the experimental data for S1 and S4 powders are compared with the predictions by the Lichtenecker equation using the εcs estimated by fitting.
 The predictions by the Lichtenecker equation are in good agreement with the experimental data in all volume fractions of BaTiO3 particles.
 Therefore, it is concluded that the Lichtenecker equation is useful for predictions of the effective dielectric constant of polymer/ceramic composites, although there are limitations that the Lichtenecker equation can be applied only if the dielectric constant of polymer matrix differs slightly from the dielectric constant of particle inclusions [9]. ##4.3. Fitting to the Maxwell-Wagner mixing rule In Fig.
 4, the experimental data of the dielectric constant of epoxy/BaTiO3 composite ECFs for S1 and S4 powders are compared with predictions by the Maxwell-Wagner mixing rule.
 As shown in this figure, there is large difference between the predictions by the Maxwell-Wagner equation and the experimental data even if we take the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 powder as infinite.
 The predictions by the Equation 5 were much smaller than the experimental data.
 In conclusion, the Maxwell-Wagner equation is indequate for the prediction of the dielectric constant of epoxy/BaTiO3 composite ECFs.
 ##4.4. Fitting to the Yamada equation There are two unknownparameters in theYamada equation.
 One is the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 powder (εc) and the other is the morphology factor (n).We tried to determine these two parameters by fitting with a least square method.
 Dielectric constants of S4 and S5 powders could not be determined by fitting, because the more numberwetook as the dielectric constant of BT powder, the smaller the total deviation between the experimental data and predictions by the Yamada equation.
 Dielectric constants of S1, S2, and S3 could be determined but the obtained results showed no consistency.
 5, the experimental data for S1 and S4 powders are compared with the predictions by the Yamada equation.
 In the case of S1, when we take the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 powder and the morphology factor as 2457 and 0.19, respectively, the predictions are consistent with the experimental data for S1. In the case of S4, when we take the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 powder and the morphology factor as infinite and 0.16, respectively, the predictions only below Figure 6 (a) Total deviations between measured data and predicted data, (b) Comparison of the predictions by the Jayasundere-Smith equation with the experimental data.
 40 vol% are consistent with the experimental data for S4. However, significant difference between the experimental data and the predicted data are observed above 40 vol%, where the experimental data are higher than the predictions.
 Nagata [18] also reported that the dielectric constant for LDPE-BaTiO3 composite system above 40 vol% remarkably deviated from the theoretical values calculated by the Yamada equation.
 ##4.5. Fitting to the Jayasundere-Smith equation The experimental data were fitted to the Jayasundere- Smith equation with a least square method, and dielectric constants of the BaTiO3 powders were estimated.
 6a shows total deviation between predictions by the Jayasundere-Smith equation and the experimental data of the dielectric constant of epoxy/BaTiO3 composite ECFs as a function of the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 powders.
 For all powders except for S4 powder, the dielectric constants of BaTiO3 powder that minimized the total deviation could be obtained.
 Dielectric constants of S1, S2, S3, and S5 were estimated to be 160, 282, 415, and 562, respectively.
 For S4 powder, as the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 powder increased, total deviation decreased.
 Therefore it was impossible to determine the dielectric constant of S4 powder by the fitting to the Jayasundere- Smith equation.
 6b, the experimental data for S1 and S4 powders are compared with predictions by the Jayasundere-Smith equation.
 When we substitute 160 for the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 powder, the predictions agree well with the experimental data for S1 in all volume fractions.
 When we substitute 282, 415, and 562 for the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 powder, the predictions are in good agreement with the experimental data for S2, S3, and S5, respectively, although they are not shown in the Fig.
 6. In the case of S4 powder, predictions approach to the experimental data for S4 more closely as the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 powder increases.
 However the experimental data for S4 are slightly bigger than the predictions even if we substitute infinite for the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 powder.
 ##4.6. Summary discussion about the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 powders The dielectric constants of BaTiO3 powders calculated from the Lichtenecker equation and the Jayasundere- Smith equation are within 100–600. These values are much smaller than the dielectric constant of BaTiO3 bulk ceramics even if the particle size effects are considered.
 Assuming that these values are reasonable to a certain extent, the difference between the dielectric constants of BaTiO3 powders and BaTiO3 bulk ceramics can be explained as follows.
 7 shows the cross section image of the epoxy/BaTiO3 composite ECF containing 40 vol% of S5 powder.
 They lower the dielectric constant of epoxy/BaTiO3 composites substantially, even if the amount of voids or pores is small. Effects of voids or pores were not considered in previous dielectric constant calculations.
 Therefore the calculated dielectric constants of BaTiO3 powders include the effects of voids and pores, so they are a little lower than actual dielectric constants of BaTiO3 powders.
