Nanofillers in polymeric matrix: a study on silica reinforced PA6The study was carried out on nanocomposites consisting of nanoscopic silica fillers embedded in polyamide 6. Various composite systems were prepared through in situ polymerisation, with different elementary particle diameters and filler contents as variables.
                  The morphological investigation demonstrated the non influence of the particle presence on the crystalline phase of such composites.
                  The introduction of filler leads to an obvious reinforcement of the matrix elastic modulus: the observed increase depends on the modulus difference between the various phases present, the filler content and its dispersion state. In the same way, the yield point, in both compressive and tensile tests, is found to be sensitive to the latter parameters.
                  Complementary experiments enable to suggest possible local events leading to the rupture of these composite systems.[['The crystalline phase', ["The filler being in the same size range as the PA6 lamellae long period, complementary analyses were conducted to investigate the influence of the filler's presence on the crystalline phase quantity and morphology within these nanocomposites.
", 'The DSC analyses lead to the values of <i>T</i>m, the melting point, <i>T</i>c, the onset of the crystallisation phenomenon, Δ<i>H</i>m, the melting enthalpy and Δ<i>H</i>c the crystallisation enthalpy, which are gathered in [TBL3].', "Within experimental error, the various characteristic parameters stay constant whatever the filler's size or concentration.
 The ratio of the crystalline phase to the amorphous one within the composite systems is actually equal to that of the pure polymer: the degree of crystallinity reaches a value of around 40% for any system.
", 'PA6 is known to crystallise into various phases: the α stable crystal and among others the γ one [BIB6]. WAXS was used to gain insight into the influence of silica on the crystalline ratio.
 The α phase gives rise to two peaks at scattering vectors of 1.416 and 1.661Å−1, respectively [BIB7 BIB8] whereas the γ phase manifests itself as a peak at a scattering vector of 1.486Å−1. As a basis for comparison, the choice was made to analyse the composite samples core, bearing in mind that the process could affect the structure of the polymer across its width.
', "The first set of experiments enables to gain insight into the influence of silica volume on the PA6 crystallinity.
 [FIG2] presents the diffraction patterns of composites with increasing filler content along with the one of the pure matrix.
 First we notice the presence of two peaks in the pure polymer spectrum, indicating the unique presence of the α phase in the core of the PA6 as injected (experiments carried on the sample's skin indicate the mixed presence of two crystal phases). Moreover, except for a decrease in intensity, the composite systems spectra present the same shape.
", 'The second set of experiments was carried out on samples containing the same filler volume fraction (as gathered on [FIG3]). So far, the conclusions that were drawn above remain valid: the two peaks indicate the obvious presence of the α phase within the composite systems.
 Thus neither the filler concentration, nor the particle size (within the limits of our study) appear to have any influence on the crystalline morphology of the silica reinforced PA6.']], ['Macroscopic properties', ["First the composite's absolute modulus was measured at room temperature, as presented in [FIG4]. So far, the modulus increases with respect to the filler concentration, whatever the filler dispersion state.
 [FIG5] represents such a volume element, based on the three-phase self-consistent scheme, also known as the Christensen and Lo model [BIB9]. At low filler fraction, this model leads to composite modulus values close to those calculated from the Kerner approach [BIB10], which is represented along with the experimental results in [FIG4]. The only hypothesis needed for the development of the latter approach concerns the matrix Poisson coefficient, which was assumed to equal 0.3 [BIB11]. Given the experimental errors, the observed modulus reinforcement can be accounted for by these mechanical approaches, classically predicting the modulus increase for conventional composite materials.
 The composite real moduli and loss factors of the systems having the largest particles are compared to the ones of the pure matrix in [FIG6 FIG7].', "Actually the fillers reinforcement on the elastic modulus is confirmed throughout the whole temperature investigation range.
 Nevertheless once the main relaxation of the polymer amorphous phase is reached, the observed reinforcement by the filler becomes higher than predicted by the mechanical approach (even if adjusted), as illustrated in [FIG8]. This actually illustrates a particular weakness of classical mechanical approaches, when the ratio between the various constituent moduli becomes too large.
", 'In order to account for the observed reinforcement, among other possible assumptions, the existence of an interphase may be included in the developed approach (as presented in [BIB12 BIB13]). This particular phase consists of a matrix fraction, which exhibits vitreous properties, because of its closeness to the inorganic surface.
 In the present study, this concept was integrated into a mechanical approach by using the extension of a three-phase model to a <i>n</i>-phase one, as developed by Hervé et al. [BIB14]. Use was made of a four-phase model, with the elementary cell represented in [FIG9]. Experimental moduli were used for the filler and matrix phase, the interphase moduli was chosen equal to the one of the matrix in the glassy state.
 Then, the interphase fraction was adjusted to fit the data at T=430   K.
 The thickness of the interphase can be deduced from the volume fraction and leads to 6.4, 13.1, 1.6 and 4.2nm for respectively, the sample PA-05-S, PA-05-L, PA-10-M and PA-15-L. In that way, the developed approach accounts for the evolution of modulus, both on the glassy plateau and above the main relaxation temperature, as presented in [FIG10] for the well-dispersed composite system (i.
 For the more aggregated ones (PA-05-S and PA-10-M), another parameter could account for the discrepancy between experiments and theory: a complex inorganic structure may be more effective in load transfer mechanisms than a simple sphere [BIB15 BIB16]. The filler aggregates could hence give rise to a better modulus reinforcement through a more effective mechanical coupling with the polymer phase than a well dispersed spherical particle does.
', "In addition, a slight reduction on the composite loss factor is observed, which is all the more obvious on the damping capacity maximum as illustrated in [FIG11]. With regard to the theoretical curves represented along, we notice that the parallel mechanical coupling assumes too high a strengthening of the composite structure through the inorganic phase.
 As a gross assumption, the simple ‘organic volume restriction’ law of Lewis [BIB17] is also represented in [FIG11]: it simply assumes that the damping capacity reflects a number of individual relaxation phenomena, which are limited for the composite systems because of the filler's presence.
", "The differences between the composites definitively break out in the liquid state, as can be seen in the melt viscosity measurements presented in [FIG12]. Within the investigated shear rate domain, the composite behaviour becomes all the more non-Newtonian as the filler loading increases or the particle size decreases.
 The deviation from the Newtonian behaviour is attributed to the strong particle–particle interactions due to the extended surface areas, and hence to the tendency of silica particles to form aggregates [BIB18]. This is especially true in the case of the PA-05-S, in which the aggregate's presence was demonstrated using TEM.
 As a matter of fact, the latter sample and the PA-05-L system, though having the same volume fraction, represent two extreme sets of values.
", "In order to investigate the composite's behaviour at higher elongations, compression tests were performed at room temperature, as illustrated in [FIG13] for the well dispersed systems.
 Within experimental error, the yield stress seems sensitive to the volume fraction, and also to the filler size and/or the filler dispersion state as presented in [FIG14]. This shows up in good agreement with what Sumita et al. [BIB2] observed in an investigation of the same range of filler size.
 Oshmyan et al. [BIB19 BIB20] developed a model (combining constitutive equations representing the behaviour of the polymer matrix with a finite element mechanical approach) to account for the observed increase in the composite yield point.
 In the case of a perfect adhesion between the spherical fillers and the matrix, they came out with a smooth increase of the yield stress with respect to the filler content: their approach leads to a calculated increase, which appears in rather good agreement with the measured yield point increase on the composite having the largest particles diameters, as shown in [FIG14]. However, the observed increase is much higher when the particle size decreases or its dispersion state becomes worse.
 Among others, Shen et al. [BIB15] showed that a complex filler geometry could lead to a better stress transfer between particle and matrix than a spherical filler shape does.
 The influence of the filler concentration on the tensile behaviour is illustrated in [FIG15]. First of all, as underlined previously in compression, the yield stress appears to be enhanced by the presence of the filler.
 The PA-05-L system even exhibits a rather ductile behaviour.
 A higher filler content (PA-15-L) leads to the loss of this ductile behaviour.
 This corresponds to the ductile/quasi-brittle transition that Lie et al. [BIB21 BIB22] observed while studying composite systems with increasing filler content.
 The scattering patterns were recorded both along the elongation axis (meridian) and perpendicular to it (equator). The recorded patterns on the largest particles reinforced systems are presented in [FIG16].', 'The scattering pattern observed on the unstrained sample presents oscillating bumps: these are due to the scattering by relatively monodispersed fillers in what is called the Guinier region of the scattering spectrum.
', 'A comparison between the tensile behaviour of the systems containing 5wt% of filler is presented in [FIG17]. Again the yield point is found to increase with decreasing filler diameter and worsened filler dispersion state.
', 'The same scattering experiments were performed on the composites containing smallest silica particles within polyamide, as presented in [FIG18].', 'As for the strained sample, both the spectrum along and perpendicular to the traction axis reflect an additional scattering compared to the initial spectrum.
', "With reference to Kim and Michler's work on micromechanical deformation processes [BIB23 BIB24], the discrepancy between the two particulate filled polymer composites features could be analysed as follows.
 In PA-05-S, the 12nm particles tend to gather into aggregates, in the equatorial regions of which the maximum stress concentration occurs, since they act as large soft particles during the deformation process.
 The authors suggest that a multiple debonding process develops throughout the aggregates (as illustrated in [FIG19] (right)): the inter particle distance being so limited, the matrix that stands in between the fillers easily undergoes shear flow and fibrillation.
", 'By contrast, the largest particles (50nm in diameter) would preferentially undergo a single debonding process.
 Around the particle, a void would develop, which appears as elliptical with the longest axis along the traction one (as shown schematically in [FIG20] (left)). The void length along the traction axis has to be much larger than the particles dimensions.
 The measured signals are gathered in [FIG20].', 'First, it can be noticed that the pure matrix displays a non negligeable volume increase (over 3%). This can be due either to the effect of the Poisson coefficient, or to the fibrillisation of the crystalline phase of the polymer.
 Moreover, the higher volume change values are reached by the PA-05-S system.
