Large Enhancement in Polarization Response and Energy Storage Properties of Poly(vinylidene fluoride) by Improving the Interface Effect in NanocompositesA novel strategy to improve the interface effect of BaTiO3 (BT)/polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) nanocomposites is developed to achieve high energy density. The surface of BT is first hydroxylated by H2O2, then modified with a titanate coupling agent DN-101. BT modified with DN-101 is also considered as a control group. Results show that the polarization response of nanocomposites with 10 vol % H2O2-DN-101-BaTiO3 (D-h-BT) is largely enhanced, which is 18% bigger than that of the nanocomposites with 10 vol % DN-101-BaTiO3 (D-BT) at 240 MV m−1. The dielectric breakdown strength is also improved from 240 MV m−1 of nanocomposites with 10 vol % D-BT to 260 MV m−1 of nanocomposites with 10 vol % D-h- BT, which makes the maximum stored energy density increase from 6.5 to 9.01 J cm−3, and the discharged energy density of the composites improved from 3.01 to 4.31 J cm−3. The findings based on this research are applicable to various nanofillers and polymer matrix, which provides a simple but effective way for nanocomposites with enhanced dielectric properties in next-generation electric and electronic industry. ['In the past decades, numerous efforts have been made to achieve dielectric materials with high energy density due to their potential applications in modern electric power systems.
1−4 The energy density U of the dielectric materials is defined by the integral: U = ∫ E dD where E is the applied electric field and D is the displacement of the material. Thus, large breakdown electric field (Eb) and dielectric displacement are highly desired.
 Many material systems have been developed to combine the high dielectric permittivity of the ceramic fillers with the high breakdown strength of polymers.
 However, ceramic/polymer nanocomposites usually suffer from the observed reduced breakdown strength while the volume fraction of the filler increases, which limits the increase of the energy density.
 There are even nanocomposites with lower energy density than the pure polymers because of the decrease in breakdown strength, which makes them less attractive due to the added cost and complexity of the manufacturing process.
5 There are two main reason for the decrease of Eb.
 First, because of the intrinsic properties of ceramics, their dielectric strength is often low, and that cannot be modified.
 Second, ceramic fillers often show poor compatibility with polymer matrixes, which makes interface areas become the key to the problem.
 Besides, interfaces can also be easily modified to develop different kinds of nanocomposites.
6,7 To enhance the interface areas, many studies have been focused on the modification of the ceramics nanoparticles to increase the compatibility between ceramics and polymer matrices.
 The surface of ceramics is usually modified by surfactant adsorptions or polymer coatings,8−12 and a physical compatibility can be formed to guarantee good dispersion of the ceramics particles.
 Perovskites such as zirconate titanate (PZT) and BT are often chosen as the filler in nanocomposites due to their high dielectric constant.
 PVDF-based polymers are often chosen as matrixes due to their high permittivity and dielectric response.
13−15 However, from the perspective of energy storage, dispersion of nanoparticles with a permittivity of hundreds or even thousands in polymers, which processes nanocomposites with a permittivity around 10, may not be satisfying for the large increase of energy density.
 As the fillers have a much larger permittivity, most of the increase in effective dielectric permittivity comes from the increase in the average field in the polymer matrix.
 As a result, only a small part of the energy is stored in the high permittivity fillers.
 It has been shown that interface areas in nanocomposites could be utilized to benefit the dielectric and energy storage properties of the polymer matrixes.
 The interface areas between the particles and the matrixes have nanometer dimension.
 As a result, the properties of them will act as a dominant role in determining dielectric performance when the particle size decreases to nanoscale.
16 Thus, much attention has been paid to utilize the interfacial effect.
17−19 Zhang et al. demonstrated a large increase in the dielectric response and electric energy density in the P(VDF-TrFE-CFE) /ZrO2 nanocomposites.
20 Although ZrO2 only has a dielectric constant of about 50, the addition of only 2 vol % ZrO2 nanoparticles raised the electric displacement from 0.085 C m−2 under 300 MV m−1 in the pure terpolymer to about 0.115 C m−2 under 250 MV m−1 in the nanocomposites through the interface effect.
 In this Article, a novel method is developed to improve the interface effect of ceramics/polymer nanocomposites.
 For most ceramic particles, most of the organic modification agents are only adsorbed on the particles by van der Waals forces or electrostatic forces due to the lack of reactive functional groups.
 Hydroxylation is an effective way of improving the surface reactivity of the particles.
21 Besides, many studies have shown that hydroxyl groups on the surface of ceramic nanoparticles have good compatibility with the PVDF-based polymers.
22,23 Thus, there is no need to worry about the bad influence that the unreacted hydroxyl groups would impose on the nanocomposites.
 In our research, BT is chosen as dielectric fillers in PVDF-based nanocomposites.
 However, commercial BT nanoparticles aggregate easily and contain only a few hydroxyl groups (−OHs). To increase the surface content of −OHs, the as-received BT (r-BT) is pretreated by hydrogen peroxide, and then modified with couple agent DN-101. BT modified by DN- 101 only is also fabricated for comparison.
 Furthermore, we have focused on the effect of this novel method on the electric polarization, dielectric losses, breakdown strength, and energy storage of the nanocomposites.
 As was shown in many previous studies, nanocomposites with 10 vol % BT could achieve the largest enhancement of the energy density.
24−27 As a result, nanocomposites with 10 vol % BT are only focused on in this Article.
 The synergy of −OHs and DN-101 leads to a large enhanced interface polarization with little decrease of Eb, which leads to a larger polarization response and a higher energy density of the nanocomposites.
 For instance, the discharged energy density of D-h-BT/PVDF composites is increased to 3.65 J cm−3 at 240 MV m−1, which is 22% bigger than that of D-BT/PVDF composites, and the maximum discharged energy density of the composites is improved from 3.01 to 4.31 J cm−3. These results demonstrate that the novel method has promising potential to synthesize nanocomposites with high energy density.
'].
['##3.1. Structure and Morphology Characterization.
27,28 However, the r-BT particles have few hydroxyl groups.
 Thus, −OHs are introduced by H2O2, and then the h- BT nanoparticles react with DN-101. Figure 1 shows the FTIR spectra of r-BT, h-BT, D-BT, and D-h-BT nanoparticles.
 The appearance of 3433 cm−1 of h-BT, which represents the stretching mode of surface −OH groups, indicates that the amount of hydroxyl groups is greatly increased.
29 The peaks of 2925 and 2855 cm−1 are attributed to the asymmetric and symmetric −CH2 stretching vibrations, which shows that the DN-101 coupling agents have been successfully introduced onto the surfaces of h-BT.
 Furthermore, the peaks of D-h-BT at 2925 and 2855 cm−1 are much bigger than that of D-BT, which indicates that the −OH groups contribute to the coupling reaction between the DN-101 with BT.
 Figure 2 shows the weight loss of different nanoparticles.
 To guarantee the dehydroxylation of BT, the highest temperature was set at 800 °C30 (see Supporting Information Figure S2). The difference of the TGA curves shows that a large number of hydroxyl groups are introduced onto the surface of BT particles.
 The grafting fraction of DN-101 of the h-BT (1.238 wt %) is more than twice that of the r-BT (0.572 wt %), which presents further evidence to prove the promotion of hydroxyl groups to the grafting of DN-101 on the surface of BT nanoparticles.
 SEM images (as shown in Figure 3a and b) of the freezefractured cross sections of BT/PVDF nanocomposites films with 10 vol % of BT particles suggest that both of the treated BT particles were well dispersed in the PVDF polymer matrix.
 As the schematic pictures illustrate in Scheme 1, through the reaction with H2O2, a lot of hydroxyl groups are attached to the surface of r-BT to form Ba−OH bonds.
21 As a result, more DN- 101 can be grafted onto the h-BT surfaces (see Supporting Information Scheme S1). DN-101 is a titanate coupling agent, which has a molecular formula of C57H112O7Ti.
 The structural formula is shown in Scheme 1. DN-101 coupling agent is widely used due to its good reaction properties with inorganic such as CaCO3 and BT.
 As previous works have demonstrated, the DN-101 also shows good compatibility with PVDF.
24 DN- 101 has long chain segments, which lead to shells with high molecular chains mobility and disordered structures.
27 Besides, hydrogen bonds form between the −OH groups on the surface of the D-h-BT particles and the F atoms of the PVDF.
 In summary, the surface properties of the BT nanoparticles and the interface of the nanocomposites can be largely improved by combining the contributions of −OH groups and DN-101 through the novel strategy.
 The DSC parameters are shown in Table 1; the glass transition temperatures (Tg) of the D-h-BT/PVDF nanocomposites is a liitle bit higher than that of the D-BT/ PVDF composites, which is smaller than that of the pure PVDF.
31 Polymer nanoparticle composites usually show a decreased Tg, which is caused by particle radius of curvature increasing the free volume of polymer chains.
32 However, DN-101 coupling agents on the surface are capable of being entangled with the chain of PVDF matrix.
 As a result, the −OH groups and DN-101 titanate coupling agent shells of the hybrid nanoparticles have strong interaction with the PVDF matrix and thus restrict the mobility of macromolecular chains of the matrix polymer, leading to smaller free volume of polymer chains and lower dielectric loss tangent.
 The degree of crystallinity (Xc) of BT/PVDF nanocomposites can be calculated by:33 XC = ΔHm/[(1 − w)ΔH0] where ΔHm is the enthalpy of melting of sample (J g−1), ΔH0 = 104.7 J/g is the fusion enthalpy of 100% crystalline PVDF,34 and w is the mass fraction of BT in the BT/PVDF composites.
 The crystallinity of the D-h-BT/PVDF composites is 29.48%, which is 5% bigger than that of DN-101-BT/PVDF composites and 13.5% bigger than that of the pure PVDF.
 To deepen the understanding of the crystallinity of the nanocomposites, the FT-IR spectra were measured, as shown in Figure 4. The chart demonstrates that there are a lot of large absorption peaks (489, 615, 760, and 976 cm−1) revealing the presence of the α-phase, while there are only a few small absorption peaks representing the β-phase (511 cm−1) and γ- phase (840 cm−1), which means that the main crystal phase is α-phase.
35 Meanwhile, the FT-IR spectra curves of the D-h- BT/PVDF nanocomposites and D-BT/PVDF nanocomposites are quite similar to that of the pure PVDF.
 ##3.2. Dielectric Responses and Energy Storage Properties of Nanocomposites.
 Dielectric properties of the BT/ PVDF nanocomposites were measured to find out the effect of hydroxyl groups and DN-101. Figure 5 shows the frequency dependence of the dielectric constant and the dielectric loss in PVDF, D-BT/PVDF nanocomposite, and D-h-BT/PVDF nanocomposite.
 The dielectric permittivity of nanocomposite with D-h-BT can be improved by 20% in comparison with the nanocomposite with D-BT.
 In addition, the dielectric loss tangents of the two nanocomposites are almost the same from 1 to 107 Hz.
 However, as shown in Figure 6a, the dielectric loss tangent of the D-h-BT/PVDF nanocomposite is smaller than that of the D-BT/PVDF nanocomposites as well as the pure PVDF at very low frequency, ranging from 0.01 to 1 Hz, which corresponds to the Maxwell−Wagner relaxation or free charge conductivity loss.
32 Charge traps on the surfacial −OH groups minimize possible charge conduction pathways in the film, thus reducing the dielectric loss tangent at low frequency.
25 The I−V curves (Figure 6b) for 20 μm thick films were also measured to observe the electric compatibility of the surficial modified BT and PVDF matrix.
 Although the leakage current density of D-h- BT/PVDF film is a little bigger than that of the pure PVDF film at 1100 V, it is one-half of the D-BT/PVDF film at the same voltage, which indicates improved interfaces between the organic and inorganic phases.
 As shown in Figure 7a, the polarization of the D-h-BT/PVDF composites is greatly enhanced.
 For instance, the dielectric polarization of the D-h-BT/PVDF composites is 6.41 μC cm−2 under the electric field of 240 MV/m, which is 18% higher than that of the D-BT/ PVDF composites and 127% higher than that of the pure PVDF.
 Because the polarization of the D-h-BT/PVDF composites is greatly enhanced, the stored and discharged energy densities are both improved (Figure 7b). For instance, when the applied electric field is 240 MV m−1, the stored energy density of the Dh- BT/PVDF composite is 7.65 J cm−3, which is 18.6% bigger than that of D-BT/PVDF composite and 138% bigger than that of the pure PVDF.
 The discharged energy density of the D-h- BT/PVDF composite is 3.65 J cm−3 at the same electric field, which is 22% bigger than that of D-BT/PVDF composite and 38% bigger than that of the pure PVDF.
 When the electric field is above 200 MV m−1, the D-h-BT/ PVDF nanocomposite maintains a stable efficiency of about 50%, which indicates good energy storage properties.
36 As shown in Table 1 and Figure 4, the crystallinity of the D-h- BT/PVDF nanocomposites is only 5% bigger than that of DBT/ PVDF nanocomposites, and the crystal type of the D-h- BT/PVDF nanocomposites is almost the same as that of the DBT/ PVDF nanocomposites.
 However, the low field dielectric constants and the high field dielectric displacement are both almost 20% higher than that of the D-BT/PVDF nanocomposites.
34 Figure 8 shows the Gouy−Chapman diffuse layer of the D-h-BT/PVDF interface.
37 In the D-h-BT/PVDF nanocomposites, the −OHs on the surface of BT particles can also act as traps for free electron.
16 Thus, the interfacial polarization of the D-h-BT/PVDF composites is largely enhanced.
 To get accurate results of the thickness, the SEM images of the cross-section of the films at each breakdown point were measured (see Supporting Information Figure S3). The breakdown strength was calculated by employing Weibull analysis (see Supporting Information Figure S4).38 In the BT/ PVDF nanocomposites, the breakdown strength is also slightly improved, from the 240 MV m−1 of the D-BT/PVDF composites to the 260 MV m−1 of the D-h-BT/PVDF composites.
 As a result, the maximum discharged energy density of the composites is improved from 3.01 to 4.31 J cm−3, and the maximum stored energy density is increased from 6.5 to 9.01 J cm−3, which reveals that if the P−E curves of D-h-BT/ PVDF composites can be further optimized, the discharged energy density can be greatly enhanced.
 As mentioned above, there are more DN-101 coupling agents on the surface of h-BT, which contributes to a better compatibility between PVDF and BT.
39 Thus, the contribution of the synergy of DN-101 and hydroxyl groups is influenced, and the increase of the dielectric breakdown strength is limited.
