Polymer−Graphite Nanocomposites: Effective Dispersion and Major Property Enhancement via Solid-State Shear PulverizationThe solid-state shear pulverization (SSSP) is used to produce polymer-graphite nanocomposites that are not subject to the thermodynamic/ kinetic limitations associated with conventional processes. The polymer-graphite nanocomposite hybrids are made from chemically or thermally pretreated graphite, e.g., graphite oxide, expanded graphite, or thermally exfolated graphite oxide. The study demonstrates the promise of SSSP for making well-dispersed nanocomposites and the promise of ARG for yielding major improvement in mechanical properties when dispersed in polymer at very low weight percent. The polymer-graphite nanocomposites isolates graphene sheet or a nanoplatelet consisting of a couple graphene sheets in a fully extended form but will have a wavy or wrinkled nature that provides less than optimal reinforcement. The FESEM image shows an edge-on view of a graphite nanoplatelet with ~10nm thickness while the TEM image shows a number of well-dispersed nanoplatelets with thickness ranging from several to ~10nm. ["Polymer nanocomposites are of scientific and commercial interest because of their potential for enhanced properties compared to neat polymer.
 1-18 For example, improvements in mechanical properties are expected when high-aspect-ratio nanofillers are well-dispersed or exfoliated in polymer;7,8 prototypical nanofillers include layered silicates (clay)9-14 and carbon nanotubes.
15-18 A carbon-based material of intense, recent focus in nanotechnology is graphite.
 19 Despite its natural abundance and use since the Middle Ages,19 graphite and its derivatives have only recently emerged as a nanomaterial of choice, as exceptional mechanical and electrical properties are observed when the sp2-hybridized carbon layers termed “graphene sheets” are isolated or in “paper” form.
 20-23 Chemically similar to carbon nanotubes and structurally analogous to layered silicates, graphite has the potential to be an outstanding nanofiller in the form of individual graphene layers or nanoscale layered stacks.
 Despite potential advantages, there are relatively few reports of graphite-based polymer nanocomposites.
 23-37 This is because effective dispersion or exfoliation of graphite is practically impossible with melt processing.
 Most polymer−graphite hybrids are made from chemically or thermally pretreated graphite, e.
g.
, graphite oxide, expanded graphite, or thermally exfoliated graphite oxide.
23-36 Even with pretreatment, nanocomposite production by conventional processing is challenging due to thermodynamic and/or kinetic limitations, sometimes leading to limited property enhancement.
 Here we employ solid-state shear pulverization (SSSP) to produce polymer−graphite nanocomposites that are not subject to the thermodynamic/kinetic limitations associated with conventional processes.
 With SSSP, a modified twin-screw extruder applies shear and compressive forces to solid-state materials; this process has previously yielded blend compatibilization and nanoscale dispersion in polymer blends and organoclay-based nanocomposites.
 38-44 We now demonstrate that the continuous, scalable SSSP process can result in well-dispersed unmodified, as-received graphite in polypropylene (PP), leading to a 100% increase in Young's modulus and a ∼60% increase in yield strength in comparison with neat PP.
 "].
["Figure 1 compares photographic and SEM (FESEM) images of compression-molded samples of SSSP-made or melt-extruded hybrids containing nominally 3.0 wt % ARG.
 Thermogravimetric analysis reveals that the graphite content is 2.8 ± 0.2 wt % for the extruded hybrid and 2.5 ± 0.2 wt % for the SSSP-made hybrid.
 As shown in Figure 1a,b, graphite is poorly dispersed in the extruded hybrid, with agglomerates at length scales of hundreds of microns, while the SSSP-made hybrid is uniformly black at the same magnification.
23-36 Characterization via SEM shows cracks and voids in a melt-extruded sample that are tens of microns in size (Figure 1c), resulting from graphite agglomerates, and the absence of cracks or voids at length scales of several microns in the SSSP sample (Figure 1d). The FESEM image in Figure 1e shows the presence of well-distributed graphite particles with lateral dimensions of ∼0.3−5 μm.
 As seen in Figure 2, ARG has a prominent, characteristic peak at 2θ = 26.6°, corresponding to an inter-graphene sheet spacing of 0.335 nm.
 Figure 2 also shows the X-ray diffractograms of neat PP and the PP−graphite hybrids made by extrusion and SSSP.
 Neat PP has several XRD peaks between 2θ = 21.0° and 28.3°, consistent with the PP crystal unit cell. 45 Both PP−ARG systems exhibit peaks associated with neat PP (although the ratio of the peak height at 25.6° to other peak heights is increased in the extruded hybrid). However, while the extruded hybrid exhibits a peak height at 26.6° that exceeds those of the PP XRD peaks, the peak associated with the inter-graphene sheet spacing is almost totally suppressed in the SSSP sample.
 Figure 3 augments this observation.
 The FESEM image (Figure 3a) shows an edge-on view of a graphite nanoplatelet with ∼10 nm thickness while the TEM image (Figure 3b) shows a number of well-dispersed nanoplatelets with thickness ranging from several to ∼10 nm.
 In the 70 nm thick cryomicrotomed TEM specimens, nanoplatelets of large lateral dimension are sliced to smaller sizes.
 However, XRD and microscopy show that SSSP can lead to well-dispersed PP−graphite nanocomposites with nanoplatelets containing a few to roughly 30 graphene layers.
 Table 1 compares the tensile, impact strength (sometimes called impact toughness), and crystallization properties of the SSSP nanocomposite, the extruded hybrid, and neat PP.
 Relative to neat PP, the extruded hybrid exhibits a 40−45% increase in Young's modulus simply due to ARG incorporation; however, it is extraordinarily brittle, exhibiting a factor of 100 reduction in elongation at break.
 In contrast, relative to neat PP, the SSSP-made nanocomposite exhibits a 100% increase in Young's modulus and a ∼60% increase in yield strength, with only a ∼30% reduction in elongation at break.
 Such enhancements in room temperature modulus and yield strength have not been previously reported in polymer−graphite nanocomposites of the same of lower graphite content and made without solution/sonication-based processing 46,47 or in nanocomposites made by coprocessing PP and organoclay with XRD-confirmed exfoliation.
 Table 1 shows that both PP−graphite systems exhibit large reductions in impact strength relative to neat PP.
 However, the SSSP-processed nanocomposite has an impact strength that is ∼45% greater than that of the extruded hybrid.
 Table 1 compares the nonisothermal crystallization onset temperature (Tc,onset) and the isothermal crystallization half-time (τ1/2) at 413 K of neat PP and PP−graphite systems.
 Relative to neat polymer, changes in Tc,onset and τ1/2 are expected in many semicrystalline polymer-based hybrids because filler particles often act as nucleation sites.
41,48,49 Changes are observed in our extruded PP−graphite hybrid, which exhibits a 12 K increase in Tc,onset and a greater than factor of 12 reduction of τ1/2 relative to neat PP.
 However, our well-dispersed PP−graphite nanocomposite made by SSSP exhibits far larger changes, with a 21 K increase in Tc,onset and a greater than factor of 33 reduction in τ1/2 relative to neat PP.
 While enhanced crystallization rates have been documented in PP nanocomposites,41 no study has reported such dramatically modified PP crystallization upon addition of similar nanofiller levels.
 Assuming 2.5 wt % perfectly bonded, randomly oriented, flat platelets with an aspect ratio of 300−500, simple calculations 50 suggest an upper limit of 4500−6300 MPa for the Young's modulus, roughly a factor of 3 greater than that observed in the SSSP-processed nanocomposite.
 Interestingly, ref 14 has provided evidence in polymer−clay nanocomposites that “complete exfoliation may not be the optimal choice as far as overall stiffness is concerned, unless exfoliated particle bending and misorientation can be effectively suppressed.
” In our polymer−graphite nanocomposites, it is possible that a completely isolated graphene sheet or a nanoplatelet consisting of a couple graphene sheets will not exist in a fully extended form but will have a wavy or wrinkled nature (see Figure 3a) that provides less than optimal reinforcement.
 51 Investigations are underway.
