Morphology and thermo-mechanical properties of compatibilized polyimide-silica nanocomposites Polyimide-silica nanocomposites have been prepared from an aromatic polyamic acid derived from pyromellitic dianhydride and oxydianiline and a silica network using the sol-gel reaction. Compatibilization of the two components was achieved by modifying the silica network with imide linkages. Morphology, thermal, and mechanical properties of these composite materials were studied as a function of silica content and compared with the one in which reinforcement of the polyimide was achieved using a pure silica network. There was considerable reduction in the silica particle size with more homogeneous distribution in the matrix when imide spacer groups were introduced in the silica network. The tan δ spectra obtained from dynamic thermal mechanical analysis shows a large increase in the glass transition temperature with increasing silica content for the compatibilized system in contrast to the un-compatibilized one. Mechanical properties of the polyimide composites improved due to better interaction between the organic and inorganic phases. [' Organic-inorganic hybrids fabricated through the sol-gel process1-3 have attracted lot of interest in the last two decades.
 These materials, commonly known as creamers,4, 5 combine the advantages of both organic and inorganic materials and may be expected to possess even new properties that individual components may not have.
 As the inorganic oxides are usually thermally very stable, the best candidates from the organic side can be those polymers6, 7 that are thermally stable.
 The polyimides8-10 (PIs) are of great interest for high-performance applications as they exhibit outstanding dielectric and mechanical properties at high temperatures.
 Thermal and mechanical properties of polymers can further be improved by inclusion of metal oxide, such as silica, in the matrix.
 Hybrid polyimide-silica materials offering favorable properties of both polyimides and silica are, therefore, in great demand for electronic applications.
9, 10 Thermodynamic immiscibility between organic and inorganic materials may, however, lead to phase separation in the resultant hybrid films.
 The control of particle size is important for thin films with good mechanical properties.
 To achieve high transparency and good mechanical strength, films needed in many applications require that particle size should be far below the micrometer scale.
 A lot of work has been done on these hybrids,11-34 which can be classified into three major classes.
 In the first the organic polymer is suitably modified to include the appropriate functional groups to link the chain with the inorganic precursor and covalent bonds are formed between the polymer and the silica network.
 In the second class, some compatibilizer is added, which can create physical interaction between organic and inorganic components.
 Third, the inorganic network can be suitably modified to develop links with the polymer chains.
 Various methods used for effectively introducing inorganic phases into the polymer matrix have been discussed by Ahmad and Mark,11, 12 Wen and Wilkes,13 and Mascia,14 among others.
  McGrath and coworkers15 first reported the synthesis of functionalized PI oligomers capable of bonding themselves into sol-gel networks.
 The amine end groups of PI were quantitatively derivatized to nadimide structures through reaction with cis-norborane-2,3 dicarboxylic anhydride.
 The nadimides were then converted to trimthoxysilane functionalites via hydrosilylation reactions.
 The resulting hexamethoxy-functionalized polyimide oligomers were finally hydrolyzed and condensed with tetramethoxysilane at elevated temperatures to generate PI-silicate hybrid composites.
 Solid state 29Si magic-angle spinning NMR was used to monitor network formation as a function of composition and reaction temperature.
 The diffusion-controlled reactions in the gel state were found to occur to higher conversions when processing temperatures exceeded the glass transition temperature, Tg, of the organic polymer.
 Since only PI oligomers were used in this case, the mechanical properties of the resulting hybrid material were not of particular interest.
  Sen and coworkers16 later on suggested that the metal alkoxide could be chemically bonded to the PI precursor polyamic acid (PAA) through cohydrolysis of carboxylic groups, and thus be maintained in isolated packets even at the final stage of the synthetic process.
 In the preparation of the hybrid materials, the metal alkoxide, together with pyromellitic anhydride (PMDA) and oxydianiline (ODA), was taken; and after the reaction, the resulting polymeric mixtures were cast into films and cured to form PIs.
 This gave hybrid materials with smaller particle sizes, improved homogeneity, and optical transparencies.
 The thermal decomposition temperature of the TiO2-PI ceramers was reported to be 25°C lower than that of the pure polyimide; but for the corresponding PI-SiO2 ceramers, it was increased by 30°C.
 The silica-containing polyimides showed an approximate 10°C increase in Tg, while for TiO2-based creamers it was found to decease.
 The mechanical properties and other thermal characteristics of the hybrid materials were not reported.
  Morikawa and coworkers17 introduced a functional group in the polymer backbone using alkoxysilated diamine in place of ODA, which provided bonding sites on the chains.
 Film transparency increased with increasing ethoxysilyl group content in the PI matrix.
 SEM results showed that the silica particle size was 0.5–1.0 μm, that is, smaller than found (3–7 μm) in their previous studies18 where no bonding sites on the polymer chain were available.
 In contrast to previous studies,18 the tensile strength of the hybrid materials showed no decrease with increase in the silica content.
  Mascia and Kioul19 and Menoyo and colleagues20 have reported the use of γ-glycidyloxy-propyl-trimethoxysilane (GPTMOS) and isocyanato-propyl-trimethoxysilane to couple PIs to the silicate network produced from tetraethoxysilane (TEOS) prior to the condensation reactions, leading to formation of the ceramer.
 A threshold GPTMOS : TEOS molar ratio was determined for the production of a transparent hybrid, which is related to the ability of the coupling agent to displace the strongly associated dimethylacetamide (DMAc) solvent molecules with the PAA to develop the required interfacial interactions between the organic and inorganic phases.
 These hybrids exhibited improved mechanical strengths upon introduction of the silica.
 Values of Tg in GPTMOS-compatibilized ceramers having 25 wt % silica were reported to increase by 10–15°C, relative to that of pure.
 This was attributed to the enhanced compatibility of the two phases, since the epoxy group of the GPTMOS reacted with the acid group of PAA, resulting in chemical bonding between the two phases.
  Wang,21, 22 Schrotter,23 Sysel,24 Chen,25 and Chang26 and their coworkers in their separate studies prepared bonded PI-silica hybrids using amino substituted alkoxysilane, for example, aminophenyl-trimethoxysilane (APTMOS), aminoethylaminomethylphenethyl-trimethoxysilane, aminopropyl-trimethoxysilane, and aminopropylmethyl-diethoxysilane, and diaminopropyltetramethyl-disiloxane and diaminophenyltetramethyl-disiloxane.
 They found that both the amino and alkoxy groups on these silanes enable chemical bonding between organic and inorganic networks, resulting in the formation of more homogeneous and transparent films as compared to those prepared using only TEOS.
 The hybrid films in general showed better mechanical properties.
 The elongation moduli and ultimate strengths increased and the elongation at break decreased with increase in silica contents.
 The use of an extensive amount of trialkoxysilane was reported to cause retardation in gelation reactions.
  A series of hybrid PI-silica composites PI hybrids in which the dispersed phase was a silica-siloxane material derived from methyl-triethoxysilanes (MTEOS) or phenyl-triethoxysilanes (PTEOS) have been prepared by Iyoku,27 Kim,28 Hsiue,29 and Cornelius30 and coworkers.
 The phenyl or methyl groups on MTEOS or PTEOS acted as compatibilizers and the diameter of the dispersed silica particles was smaller, making the films more transparent than the hybrids containing similar contents of silica derived from TEOS alone.
 29Si-NMR spectra29 of the silicate structure in the nanocomposites showed three major absorption peaks: dihydroxy-substituted silica, monohydroxy-substituted silica, and nonhydroxy-substituted silica.
 It was observed that the proportion of the nonhydroxy-substituted silica increases with increase of the silicon content.
 Tsai and colleagues31 have recently reported that inclusion of PTEOS reduces the dielectric constant and water absorption in the hybrid materials due to increase in free volume and hydrophobicity.
 Huang and coworkers32 have prepared PI materials with a low coefficient of thermal expansion, ranging from 14.9 to 31.1 ppm, while still retaining high strength and toughness.
 The silica was incorporated through the sol-gel process in homo- and copolyimides with highly rigid chain structures.
  The silica network in the polyimide matrix was modified by Qui and colleagues33 using different proportions of tetrabutyltitanate (TBT) along with TEOS during the sol-gel process.
 The inorganic particles show a much more homogenous distribution and very fine interconnected domains with reduced size as compared to binary hybrids with similar concentration of metal oxide.
 The interaction between the particles and the matrix increased significantly, particularly when TBT was used in equal molar ratio to TEOS.
  In the present work, the interfacial interaction between the inorganic phase and the polyimide matrix has been developed by modifying the silica network using imide linkages.
 This strategy is different from that used by previous workers.
15, 16, 33 These aromatic imide groups present on the silica network are thermally stable, and their inclusion can improve the thermal and mechanical performance of PI.
 The amic acid (AA) dimers were prepared by reacting APTMOS with PMDA in the molar ratio 2 : 1 in DMAc as solvent.
 The APTMOS present at the end-groups is used to link AA with TEOS, which on further hydrolysis and condensation reaction produces a silica network in high molecular weight PAA solution.
 The resulting material is imidized by heating the hybrid films up to 300°C.
 The imide spacer group in the silica network is supposed to reduce the agglomeration tendencies in silica, particularly at high silica contents in the matrix, and also increase the interaction between the inorganic network and the organic polymer chains.
 The glass transition temperature associated with α-relaxations of the hybrid material has been measured by dynamic mechanical thermal analysis.
 Viscoelastic and tensile properties, and morphology of the resulting material, have been described and compared with the system where the pure silica network in the matrix was produced from TEOS only.
 '].
[' In the preparation of PI silica hybrids, it has been noticed that in many cases the imidization process was not complete and the Tg of the hybrid film has been reported16 to be less than that of the pure polyimide.
 The hydrolysis of corboxylate groups of amic acid might be slow34 if the metal oxide precursor remains bonded to amic acid until all alkoxide groups have been hydrolyzed off.
 The curing conditions in the present work were improved by enhancing the curing time at the temperature where the imidization process has been reported35, 36 to be the maximum.
  Figure 3 shows the absorption spectra of the polyamic acid.
 Two important bands appear at 1668.6 and 1547.5 cm−1 for amide carbonyl (C=O) and amide absorption (C-NH), respectively.
 A broad band around 1668.6 cm−1, usually called amide I mode,37 involves contributions from C=O stretching, C-N stretching, and C-CN deformation vibrations.
 The peaks appearing in the 1547.5–1558.4 cm−1 range, known as amide II mode,38 are a mixed contribution of N-H in plan bending, C-N stretching, and C-C stretching.
 A broadband appearing in the range of 2800–3300 cm−1 corresponds to the N-H overlapped with carboxylic acid absorption.
 After curing the polyimide is formed, and its FTIR is shown in Figure 4. The above-mentioned absorption bands for polyamic acid disappeared, and new bands appeared at 1776.8, 1721.89, 727.61 cm−1, and 1371.42, which correspond35 to imide carbonyl (C=O) asymmetric and symmetric stretching, bending, and the imide band (C-N), respectively, and confirmed the formation of polyimide.
 The band corresponding to the aromatic C-H stretching vibrations, which appears in the range 3000–3100 cm−1, can be observed in the case of polyimide, although in the case of polyamic acid, this band is overlapped by the carboxylic acid group, which occurs in the range 2800–3300 cm−1. This broad band can be attributed to the combination of the OH and N-H stretching.
 The downshift in the OH group from 3500 cm−1 to about 3300 cm−1 can be due to the strong hydrogen bonding.
 Figure 5 shows the spectrum for PI-SiO2 hybrids (silica content 20 wt %). The absorption bands at 1776, 1721.9, 1375.4 cm−1, and 727.6 cm−1 confirm imide formation, showing that the silica network virtually has no effect upon the imidization process.
 In the absorption domain ranging from 850 and 1250 cm−1, the most important band in the 1000–1250 cm−1 region results from Si-O-Si asymmetric stretching vibrations, whereas the band at 415 cm−1 is assigned to the Si-O-Si bending vibration.
 The vibrational mode at 822.8 cm−1 involves predominantly silicon cage motion.
 The shoulder around 960 cm−1 can be due to the Si-O-Et group.
 The ethoxy group gives rise to a strong doublet at 1100–1074 cm−1 and two medium intensity bands at around 1177–1165 cm−1 and 960–940 cm−1. Taking in account the reversibility of the hydrolysis and condensation reactions of the sol-gel process, it is possible that some ethoxy groups of the TEOS could have remained or have been hydrolyzed to ethanol. The band for the Si-OH also appears in the region 3300–3635 cm−1. The bands at 1085.7, 1158, and 1202.5–1218.75 cm−1 can be assigned to the linear, cyclic, and five to six member silica rings, respectively.
 This has been reported earlier15, 29 as well as in similar studies since the fully condensed silica network is possible only at a higher curing temperature than used in the present work (i.
, 300°C). The color of the hybrid films changed gradually from yellow to yellow brown to brown with increasing in the silica contents.
 In the case of the noncompatibilized system, the films obtained up to 5 wt % silica were transparent; whereas in the case of the compatibilized one, the films were transparent up to 10 wt % silica.
 Semitransparent films were obtained for higher concentrations than these; however, opaque films were obtained with 20 wt % silica in the case of the noncompatibilized system, but in the case of the compatibilized one, even with 30 wt % silica, they were semitransparent.
 In the case of the noncompatibilized system, the maximum value of tensile strength was for 2.5 wt % silica, and then this value constantly decreased with further addition of more silica.
 The value of tensile strength in the case of the compatibilized system increases constantly until 10% silica content in the matrix and then it decreases.
 The maximum value of tensile strength in the case of the noncompatibilized system is 122 MPa; whereas in the case of the compatibilized system, it is 165 MPa.
 The modulus value for the compatibilized system constantly increases with an increase in silica contents, with the maximum value of 3.40 GPa obtained in the case of 20 wt % of silica; whereas for the noncompatibilized system, it increases up to 2.54 GPa for 15 wt % silica but then decreases at higher silica contents (20 wt %) The elongation at rupture slightly increases initially with increasing the silica but then decreases with higher amount of silica in both types of system.
 Yan and coworkers25 also studied the PI-SiO2 hybrid material where a chemical bond between polyimide and the silica network was developed.
 The temperature variation of the storage modulus and the tan δ for the noncompatibilized system are shown in Figures 6 and 7, respectively.
 Similar results for the compatibilized system are given in Figures 8 and 9. For the noncompatibilized system, the values of the storage modulus ranges from ∼ 1.53 GPa to 2.96 GPa for the hybrids containing 0 to 20 wt % silica at 100°C, respectively.
 The value of the storage modulus in this case was in the range of 1.45 GPa to 3.08 GPa for 0 to 20 wt % silica at 100°C, respectively.
 6). The presence of imide linkage in the silica network rendered it flexible above the Tg, so the modulus increase at higher temperature was less in the case of the compatibilized system.
 7), which shows that the system shows more elastic behavior on the inclusion of silica in the matrix.
 In the case of the compatibilized system, the same trend is obtained, but the damping is relatively more; the tan δ peak value was 0.13 for the 20 wt % silica, whereas this value for the similar silica contents in the case of the noncompatibilized system was 0.18. The tan δ curve has also been broadened.
 9), it systematically increases toward higher temperature when silica content in the matrix is increased.
 The values of glass transition temperatures (Tg) calculated (Table I) from the maxima of the curves from Figures 7 and 9 are plotted as a function of silica contents in Figure 10. In the case of the noncompatibilized system, there is no bonding between the inorganic phase and the organic polyimide phase so that the Tg is not affected as the silica content increases in the polymer matrix.
 Our system may be considered as better than those19-26 in which polar organo-alkoxysilanes were used as coupling agents.
 The scanning electron micrographs (SEM) of the fractured surface in the case of noncompatibilized hybrids show the average diameter with 5 wt % silica content ranges from 0.2 to 0.3 μm, which increases to 0.5–1μm in the case of 20 wt % silica in the matrix (Fig.
 11). The dispersed silica particles are in the form of white beads and have clear sharp boundaries, as no interactions exist between the two phases.
 The size distribution becomes broader as the silica content in the matrix increases; and with 40 wt % silica in the matrix, the average diameter was of the order ∼ 2.5μm.
 The SEM micrographs for the compatibilized systems with 5 and 20 wt % silica contents in the matrix are shown in Figure 12. The average diameter of silica particles where the silica was modified during the sol-gel process by introducing imide linkage in the network is in the range of 10–40 nm.
