Synthesis and dielectric studies of poly (vinyl pyrrolidone) / titanium dioxide nanocompositesIn this paper, we present the synthesis of poly vinyl pyrrolidone (PVP) / titanium dioxide nanocomposites via sol- gel technique. The structural and dielectric properties of the samples were also analysed in this work. PVP doped with varying concentrations of TiO2 are prepared by the sol–gel route. The prepared composites were characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD), transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and impedance spectroscopy. XRD and TEM confirm the presence of TiO2 nanoparticles in the composites. The dielectric response and the AC electrical conductivity of the samples are investigated for the frequency range 1 kHz–2MHz at room temperature. The dielectric studies show low values for dielectric constant and loss at high frequencies. ['Organic–inorganic hybrid composites has attracted considerable attention in many applications, such as packaging material, circuit board, interlayer dielectrics, antenna, and passivative protection.
 Composite materials are typically formed when at least two distinct materials are mixed to form a monolith [1]. Hybrid organic–inorganic materials can be formed by reacting an inorganic alkoxide directly with an organic polymer or an oligomer having the appropriate functional groups, thus providing covalent linkages between the organic phase and the inorganic network [2]. Polymers possess some limitations for much higher performance applications because of their intrinsic organic nature and thus require inorganic materials for improving them.
 Inorganic materials exhibit excellent thermal stability and functional properties such as dielectric and magnetic properties, but have high brittleness and bad film forming characteristics.
 Thus, the composite formation of polymers with inorganic material has been suggested to meet the demands of balanced properties for both organic and inorganic materials [3, 4]. The overall properties of a composite material are determined not only by the properties of the parent components but also by the morphologies, volume fractions, and connectivity of the phases as well as their interfacial properties [5, 6]. Titania–polymer nanocomposites represent a new class of potential materials for optoelectronic applications.
 Titanium dioxide (TiO2) is a very promising material for a large number of potential applications in many aspects such as solar energy conversion, photocatalysis, sensors, and photochromic devices [7, 8]. TiO2 has been known to have three crystallographic phases: anatase, brookite and rutile [9]. Among them, anatase has been proved to have excellent photoactivity and optoelectronic properties [10]. In this work, we present the non- hydrolytic sol-gel method of polymer-TiO2 nanocomposites preparation without any catalysts and the structural and dielectric characterizations of these polymer nanocomposites.
'].
 1 exhibits the XRD pattern of the hybrid composite TiO2 nanocrystals.
 There exist seven peaks at 25.2°, 37.8°, 48.04°, 55.06°, 62.6°, 68.7°,75.02° respectively, which can be indexed to (101), (004), (200), (211), (204), (116) and (215) planes of anatase phase of TiO2. The above results confirmed that the optimum calcination temperature for the preparation of pure anatase TiO2 nanocrystals is 360°C.
 Therefore, the average crystallite sizes were measured from the most intense XRD peak (101) using the Debye- Scherrer formula and was estimated to be 4.8 nm.
 In order to find the effect of strain on the particle size, we use a modified equation with full-widths at half-maximum (FWHM) of the diffraction peaks [11]. The FWHMs (β s) can be expressed as a linear combination of the contributions from the strain (η) and particle size (ε) through the following relation:  Here, ε is the effective particle size and η is the effective strain.
 Using this equation, the crystal size was evaluated to be 5.58 nm.
 The TEM image of the hybrid composite containing TiO2 nanocrystals is shown in Fig 2. It can be clearly observed that a lot of nanoscale particles are dispersed in the spectrum.
 The image shows several nanocrystals oriented randomly, ranging in size from 5 to 7 nm, and not much agglomeration even after heating at 360°C.
 3(a) presents the variation of real part of dielectric constant (C) as a function of frequency (ɷ) at room temperature for different samples.
 It is likely that as the concentration of TiO2 increases; the distance between the TiO2 nanoparticles is reduced, thereby increasing the interaction between them [12]. Such an increase in interaction among the nanoparticles, could possibly reduce the diploe- dipole interaction, leading to a reduction in the dielectric constant.
 The variation of imaginary part of dielectric constant (dielectric loss) ε” with frequency for PVP-TiO2 nanocomposites at different concentration of TiO2 nanoparticles is shown in Fig 3(b). It is clear from this graph that dielectric loss decreases with an increase in frequency.
 4 shows the variation of AC conductivity with frequency.
