Enhanced Charge Trapping in Bimodal Brush Functionalized Silica-Epoxy Nanocomposite DielectricsThis manuscript details the processing, and investigates the dielectric properties, of surface ligand engineered epoxy nanocomposites. They display significant improvements in dielectric breakdown strength (DBS). Thermally stimulated depolarization current (TSDC) measurements and pulsed electroacoustic analysis (PEA) results are used to investigate space charge evolution and trapping. These techniques reveal the potential underlying phenomena behind the DBS enhancement. ['It is commonly accepted that nanocomposite dielectrics can display improved dielectric breakdown strength (DBS)[1]. However, the mechanisms remain elusive [2], though the novel properties can be traced back to electronic activity of the filler-matrix interface [1]. Interestingly, varying the electronic character of the interface with electron-accepting and donating functional groups to create a highly polar surface has been shown to significantly affect the DBS of the composite [3]. The high specific surface area of nanofillers creates both an opportunity to effect change in bulk composite properties, but also presents a problem in avoiding agglomeration.
 Interfacial energy drives agglomeration.
 Energy penalties are largely due to mismatch in surface energies between filler and matrix and may be addressed with brushes of matrix compatible polymer chains covalently grafted to the filler surface [4]. A solution is to adopt two populations of surface ligands: one of dense short chains for enthalpic shielding and one of long, disperse chains to suppress autophobic dewetting.
 This has been shown to be effective with short molecules of chemistry dissimilar to the matrix [5], opening up an opportunity to introduce electrical functionality onto the surface of the particle without hindering the mixing properties of the composite.
 The applicability of this functional bimodal brush technique in improving DBS in epoxy/silica nanocomposites has been demonstrated [6]. In these studies, TSDC and PEA measurements are used to investigate the effect of ligand engineered filler particles on trapped charge and the evolution of space charge in the composite.
'].
 1. Of note are the progressive improvements seen in the DBS, (Table II). Filler modified with a monomodal brush (PGMA) for matrix compatibility shows a small improvement, while anthracene and PGMA bimodally modified fillers (Anth) show greater improvements up to 27% over the neat polymer.
 2. The displacement of the peak front indicates the presence of injected charges of the same polarity as the electrode.
 Most injected charge was trapped in the vicinity of the electrode without traveling into the bulk, in agreement with previous results [9]. Little difference was observed for each sample in the space charge profile under field due to the strong influence of the image charges and limited spatial resolution of the test system.
 2). The signal from the cathode is less accurate due to the attenuation and dispersion of the acoustic wave, so we concentrated our analysis on the decay of the homocharge peak close to the anode, where the acoustic signal is collected.
 3. The space charge density was obtained by integrating the homocharge peak next to the anode.
 The detrapping model proposed by Dissado [9] (eqns 1- 3) was applied, wherein a square distribution of traps was assumed and the charge density was found to be logarithmically proportional to the decay rate.
 3). The minimum trap depth was taken as 0.79 eV for all samples, calculated from the minimum observable relaxation time of 5 seconds.
 The introduction of silica nanoparticles increased the maximum trap depth for holes by 0.10 eV while the anthracene modified silica nanoparticles increased the depth by 0.22 eV.
 4, demonstrates an additional peak at low temperatures, as well as a shift in the location of the intrinsic neat epoxy low temperature peak.
