Rheology and biodegradation of polylactide/silica nanocomposites Silica-filled polylactide (PLA) nanocomposites were prepared by melt compounding. The oscillatory rheological properties and biodegradation behavior were then investigated. As the silica loadings reach up to 5 wt%, percolated silica network structures form. For the percolated PLA/silica nanocomposites sample (the silica content was >5 wt%), the modulus enhances with an increase of temperature evidently. Moreover, it is interesting to find that the biodegradation rates have been enhanced obviously in the PLA/silica nanocomposites than in neat PLA. The erosion mechanism of neat PLA and the PLA/silica nanocomposites was further discussed.  [' Most of the biodegradable synthetic polymers are mainly aliphatic polyesters, which are promising materials for the production of high-performance and environmentally friendly plastics [1-3]. As one of those aliphatic polyesters, poly(lactic acid) (PLA) has the most excellent comprehensive performance.
 It is biodegradable, compostable, and nontoxic to the human body and to the environment; moreover, it can be produced from renewable plant resources (mainly starch and sugar). This polymer possesses reasonably good mechanical and optical properties, thermal plasticity, and processability, so it has tremendous market potential for packaging materials, fibers, agricultural films, and biomaterials.
 Consequently, PLA is considered highly promising as a commercial commodity polymer with biodegradable characteristics [4-6]. However, other properties of PLA, such as toughness, dimensional stability, gas barrier properties, and slow biodegradation rate, are often not sufficient for its further processing and end-use applications.
  Several techniques including copolymerization and blending with other polymers have been developed to further improve the physical properties of PLA, aiming at extending its end-use applications [1, 7]. Besides, compounding with nanofillers, such as layer silicate [8], carbon nanotubes (CNTs) [9], and polyhedral oligomeric silsesquioxanes [10], is also an effective way of fabricating PLA materials with high performance.
 In recent years, fumed silica has been used as the new-generation nanofiller to prepare polymer composites because it possesses advantages of a light mass, low price, rich resource, high strength and modulus, and good thermal stability [11]. Many polymer/silica nanocomposites have hitherto been prepared successfully via various approaches, also including PLA/silica nanocomposites [12, 13]. Yan et al. prepared PLA/silica nanocomposites via two steps: the grafting of L-lactic acid oligomer onto the surface of silica followed by melt blending with PLA [14]. The resulting nanocomposites had improved crystallization and mechanical properties.
 Subsequently, the same research group, in another study, successfully synthesized plasticized PLA/silica nanocomposite materials by a sol–gel process [15]. They found that the presence of even small amount of silica largely improves the tensile strength of the samples.
 Wu et al. prepared and characterized PLA/silica nanocomposites via in situ melt polycondensation of L-lactic acid in the presence of acidic silica sol [16]. In our previous work [17, 18], poly(L-lactide) (PLLA)/silica nanocomposites were prepared by melt compounding.
 Some properties of the PLLA/silica nanocomposites, such as thermomechanical properties and optical transparency, have been explored preliminarily.
 Moreover, the thermal stabilization mechanism of biodegradable PLLA/silica was further studied.
 The thermal stabilization mechanism was attributed mainly to the barrier effect of the network formed, which was demonstrated by the improved barrier properties and rheological performance.
  It is well established that rheology is a powerful tool to investigate microscopic and mesoscopic structure of the filled polymer systems because the viscoelastic properties are highly related to both the dispersion state of filler and the interactions between filler and polymer matrix [19]. Hitherto numerous rheological studies have been reported on various polymer composites with silica [20-22]. Similar to those observed on the polymer composites containing clay, nanotubes, a solid-like flow behavior can also be observed on the polymer/silica nanocomposites.
 The rheological behaviors of the PLLA/silica nanocomposites have also been studied preliminarily in our previous work to further discuss the thermal stabilization mechanism.
 When the silica loading is higher than 7 wt%, a transition from liquid-like to solid-like viscoelastic behavior has been observed in the nanocomposites, indicating a rheological percolation threshold formed.
 However, are there any other aspects also influencing the viscoelastic behavior of a polymer/silica system? This is worthy of further study.
 In addition, both the processing and the application also require further information on rheological responses of the PLA/silica nanocomposites.
 Therefore, in this work, the PLA/silica nanocomposites were prepared via melt mixing for the rheological study.
 The oscillatory rheology was then used as a probe to further explore the rheological behavior and its temperature dependence.
 Moreover, the biodegradation experiments were performed to study the effect of the incorporation of silica in the polymer matrix on the biodegradation of PLA, aimed at relating the macroscopic biodegradation performance to the mesoscopic and microscopic structures of the silica in the PLA matrix.
 '].
 1. Figure 1a shows ESEM micrograph of the neat PLA fracture surface, which is smooth and featureless.
 When the silica content was <5 wt% (Fig.
 1b and c), the nanoparticles dispersed evenly in the PLA matrix and exhibited only aggregates with particle size of less than 100 nm.
 However, at a higher silica content (>5 wt%), the number of large aggregates increased markedly.
 Some of the aggregates even exceeded the size of 250 nm.
 This result supports the view that the higher the silica content is, the larger the silica aggregate becomes because of the strong interaction among the nanoparticles [24, 25]. A very similar dispersion of silica nanoparticles in the polymer matrix was also observed in the PLLA/silica nanocomposites and poly(3-hydroxybutyrate-co-4-hydroxybutyrate)/silica nanocomposites [17, 26].  ##Linear Viscoelasticity of PLA/Silica Nanocomposites  The presence of those dispersed silica nanoparticles has large influence on the linear viscoelasticity of PLA matrix.
 Figure 2 shows the dependence of dynamic storage modulus (G′) of the PLA/silica nanocomposites on the strain (γ) at 120 and 140°C, respectively.
 Thus, the following dynamic frequency sweep was conducted at γ = 1%.  Figure 3a and c and b and d shows the dependence of dynamic storage modulus (G′) and complex viscosity (η*) for the neat PLA and PLAx samples at 120 and 140°C, respectively.
 It is seen that the neat PLA sample shows typical terminal behavior at low frequencies with the scaling properties of G′ ∞ ω2, which is in consistent with the linear viscoelastic theory.
 As the silica loadings reach up to 7 wt%, the PLAx exhibit evident solid-like response in the low frequency region, indicating the occurrence of an elastic deformation-dominated flow.
 3b and d.
 The rheological percolation threshold (φc) of PLAx is between 5 and 7 wt%. Similar results are also found at 100°C (see Supporting Information). Plotting the slopes of low-frequency modulus curves versus the silica loadings, the turning point can be considered as the percolation thresholds (φc) approximately [9]. Figure 4 gives the values of percolation thresholds (φc) at various temperatures for the PLAx systems.
 The rheological percolation threshold (φc) of PLAx is ∼6.35 and 6.24 at 120 and 140°C, respectively, which is higher than those of corresponding clay-based PLLA nanocomposites and CNT-based PLLA nanocomposites.
 (The percolation threshold of PLLA/clay and PLLA/CNT nanocomposites is about 3–5 and 2.7 wt%, respectively [8, 9].) This is mainly due to the different aspect ratio, dispersion in the polymer matrix, and interfacial interactions among polymer matrix of these nanoparticles.
 A similar result was also obtained in the CNT-filled poly(butylene succinate) composites [27]. Moreover, it should be noted here that for the unpercolated PLAx sample (the silica content was <5 wt%), the modulus decreases with increasing temperature.
 However, for the percolated PLAx sample (the silica content was >5 wt%), the modulus increases with increase of temperature evidently.
 However, it has been reported that Brownian motion is not the major force for the reorganization of the nanofiller network [28, 29]. As soon as the nanocomposites percolated, the large-scale polymer chain relaxations may be highly restrained by the percolated silica network.
 Figure 5 gives the Han plots of G′∼G″ [30] for the neat PLA and its nanocomposites at 120 and 140°C, respectively.
 The curves of nanocomposites clearly show silica loading dependence, confirming the hydrogen-bonding interaction existed between the Si\uf8ffOH of silica and the C\uf8feO of PLA as observed by infrared spectroscopy measurements in our previous work [17]. In addition, the reduced slope with the addition of silica indicates that the composites become more heterogeneous.
 The relaxation time (λ) can be calculated as follows [9]:  The calculated ratio of the relaxation time of composites to that of neat PLA (Δλ) increases gradually with silica loadings and finally to about 9 and 55 for the PLA9 sample at the low frequency (0.01 Hz) at 120 and 140°C, respectively.
 This strong restriction is further confirmed by the Cole–Cole plots [31] shown in Fig.
 6, which is often adapted to the description of viscoelastic properties (viscosity and modulus) of the materials with a relaxation time distribution such as heterogeneous polymeric systems.
 After incorporation of silica (the silica content was ≥5 wt%), all Cole–Cole plots are divided into two parts: a half-baked arc at low viscosities corresponding to the local dynamic of PLA and a rigid tail at high-viscosity region, which is indicative of the long-term relaxation of those restrained PLA chains.
 As the loading level achieving up to 7 wt%, the local relaxation arc of PLA nearly disappears, indicating that the long-term relaxation of those restrained PLA chains becomes the dominant one in the whole relaxation behaviors of the nanocomposites, which also confirms that the mescostructure of silica, percolation network forms at present silica loadings, and the long-range motion of PLA chains is highly restrained consequently.
 Figure 7 shows the variation of weight loss of neat PLA and its nanocomposites with exposed time during biodegradation test.
 7, weight loss starts from the beginning of each biodegradation experiment and shows almost linear variation of weight loss with exposed time until 24 h.
 8. For neat PLA, the biodegradation rate is around 0.055 mg cm−2 h−1; however, the biodegradation rates are increased to be around 0.36 mg cm−2 h−1 for the PLA9 sample.
 As the silica loadings reach up to 5 wt%, percolated silica network structures form as observed from rheological results.
 Moreover, at a higher silica content (>5 wt%), some of the aggregates of silica exit.
 All these factors may lead to the fact that the highest filled silica composites (less homogeneous dispersion of filler >5%) show the higher degradation rate.
 Tsuji et al. have reported that the addition of fullerene C60 and single-wall CNT enhanced the enzymatic degradation of PLLA [32]. In our previous work [26], the enzymatic degradation rate of the P(3-hydroxybutyrate-co-4-hydroxybutyrate)/silica nanocomposites was markedly accelerated with increasing silica content.
 The weight-average molecular weight (Mw) of original PLA film and PLA5 film was 148,000 and 150,000, respectively.
 The weight-average molecular weight (Mw) of PLA film and PLA5 film after a biodegradation of 24 h was 143,000 and 142,500, respectively.
 It is well established that both the environmental factors, such as pH, temperature, relative humidity, and microorganism, and internal factors, such as crystallinity and branched structure, affect the biodegradation behavior of aliphatic polyesters [33]. Figure 9 shows the DSC curves of neat PLA and its nanocomposites before biodegradation and after a degradation of 24 h.
 9 that all samples only exhibit a glass transition temperature at about 60°C, indicating that all samples are amorphous.
 Therefore, as to a surface-eroding polymer, the erosion rate is essentially constant until the polymer is completely degraded [10]. Therefore, it is interesting to investigate further the erosion mechanism of neat PLA and its nanocomposites during the biodegradation process.
 Figure 10a–d illustrates the ESEM images of neat PLA before and after biodegradation.
 Figure 10a and b shows the surface and cross-sectional images of neat PLA before biodegradation, whereas Fig.
 10c and d shows the surface and cross-sectional images of neat PLA after a biodegradation of 12 h.
 10a and c that the surface of neat PLA is very smooth before degradation, whereas that of degraded neat PLA becomes blemished and shows cell-like structure.
 10b and d; however, the film thickness of neat PLA decreased after a biodegradation, indicating again that the biodegradation of neat PLA may proceed via surface erosion mechanism.
 Figure 10e and f shows the corresponding surface and cross-sectional ESEM images of a PLA5 nanocomposite after a biodegradation of 12 h as an example.
 The surface of the PLA5 nanocomposite shown in Fig.
 10e is rougher than that of neat PLA shown in Fig.
 10c after a biodegradation of 12 h; moreover, the films tend to become thinner in the PLA5 nanocomposite than in neat PLA if we compare the cross-sectional images shown in Fig.
 10d and f after a biodegradation.
 Such results are consistent with the previous research conclusion that the erosion of PLA process proceeds via surface erosion in alkaline solution [10]. During the biodegradation process, both the weight and thickness of the films decreased with time, whereas the molecular weight remained almost unchanged.
