Some mechanistic understanding of the impulse strength of nanocompositesImprovements in the dielectric properties of composite dielectrics have been previously documented when the filler material used is reduced to nanometric dimensions. While the reasons for this have been traced to the physics and chemistry taking place at the interface, and dramatic changes in the magnitude and dynamics of the internal charge are also known to occur, a clear picture of the exact mechanisms taking place has not emerged. This contribution seeks to compare the direct voltage breakdown of composites formed from biphenyl epoxy resin and titanium dioxide in both nanometric and conventional micron-scale forms with that obtained under impulse voltage conditions. The same materials are subjected to an internal charge analysis using the pulsed electroacoustic technique which shows that, in the case of the nanomaterials, a marked homocharge is formed in front of the cathode which would suggest that the dramatic improvements in voltage endurance seen for these materials may be due to the shielding effect of this negative charge. The finding also suggests that the negative charge is formed as the result of scattering occurring in the nanodielectric which is not present to the same extent in the conventional counterpart.  1 depicts the DC shortterm breakdown strengths of the three materials shown as Weibull plots.
 The expected reduction in electric strength for the micron filled epoxy is clear, but the nanocomposite shows an 18% improvement in strength.
 This improvement over the base resin is in agreement with findings for other nanodielectrics [2,6] and results from the improved dispersion now obtained with the DAC compounding.
 2. Although the nanocomposite still shows the highest breakdown strength overall, enhancement in comparison with the base resin was somewhat smaller than it was in the DC breakdown test.
 3 shows the corresponding impulse strength as a function of the gap spacing from which the three materials appear almost indistinguishable.
 This is evident by examining the associated Weibull size parameter, α, shown later in Table 1 which shows no measurable improvement.
 All the samples have a large impulse ratio (IR) also documented in Table 1. ##Internal charge accumulation In order to better understand the way in which the particulate size affects the accumulation and dissipation of internal charge, the Pulsed Electroacoustic Analysis technique (PEA) was employed to examine charge profiles on laminar 0.5 mm samples.
 4 for the case of the micro- and nanocomposite which will contribute to the image charge.
 4 that, in the case of the nanodielectric, the predominant charge is a homocharge (negative) which appears in front of the cathode (on the left in Fig.
 4) – the associated positive charge is its image on the cathode.
 5 where the reduction of the filler size reduces the electric field in front of the cathode from about 23 MVm-1 to 18.5 MVm-1 – for a situation for which the average gradient is exactly 20 MVm-1. Of equal significance in the context of the impulse strength are the dynamics of the charge accumulation, shown in Fig.
 6. It is observed that the maximum internal field changes only slowly from its nominal (V/d) value (enhancement in the case of the microcomposite and reduction for the nanomaterial). Furthermore, there is a difference in the charge decay time constant (2210 s for nano and 6300 s for micro)'].
