Dielectric Properties of Electrospun Barium Titanate Fibers/Graphene/Silicone Rubber CompositesThe ability to increase the dielectric constant of an insulator by embedding spherical particles is limited at low volume fraction as described by the rule of mixtures. High aspect ratio fillers are predicted to be able to increase the dielectric constant more efficiently than spherical fillers. In this work, barium titanate fibers were synthesized by electrospinning a sol-gel, followed by a heat treatment to obtain a perovskite crystal structure. Graphene platelets were synthesized by a thermal shock method. Dielectric spectroscopy showed that a larger dielectric constant increase was achieved by this means, and a combination of barium titanate and graphene platelets yielded the highest value when used in a polydimethyl siloxane matrix. The increase in dielectric loss over the pure matrix was small when the volume fraction was below the percolation threshold of graphene platelets. The electric flux density-electric field (D-E) measurements showed a linear dielectric constant in barium titanate filled composites and higher loss when graphene was added. The mechanisms that lead to those phenomena are discussed in this work. This is a promising route for creating high dielectric constant, low loss materials, for use as capacitor and electric field grading materials.['To increase the dielectric constant of polymer composites , ferroelectric ceramic particles are widely used because of their high dielectric constant and low dielectric loss [1,2]. The other approach is to use conductive particles at a volume fraction close to the percolation threshold [3]. However, the ability of spherical particles to increase the dielectric constant is small at low volume fractions, according to the rule of mixtures [4]. Higher volume fractions of ceramic particles lead to increased dielectric constant, but also to a reduction in mechanical properties [5-8]. Composites with high aspect ratio fillers exhibit higher dielectric constant at lower loading [4], thereby potentially maintaining the mechanical properties.
 High aspect ratio fillers, however, have not been studied as extensively as their spherical counterparts because of challenges in manufacturing high aspect ratio fillers [9,10]. In this work, the dielectric properties of a polymer composite containing BaTiO3 fibers and graphene platelets (GPLs) are investigated and discussed.
'].
 2. Both the dielectric constant and dissipation factor exhibit a large increase at a small volume fraction of GPLs.
 The sheet morphology and high aspect ratio of GPLs lead to a low percolation threshold of less than 0.01 in volume fraction.
 The high dielectric constant can be explained by percolation theory [12], which describes the critical behavior of composites when the volume fraction of conductive fillers approaches the percolation threshold.
 A GPL volume fraction of 0.0043 was chosen for the three-phase composite preparation.
 High aspect ratio conductive fillers such as carbon nanotubes [13] and carbon fibers [14] have been used to prepare high dielectric constant composites in the literature.
 2-dimensional GPLs are expected to increase the dielectric constant at even a lower volume fraction from the rule of mixtures [4]. The dielectric properties of graphene-filled composites were not reported until recently [15]. In our work, the GPLs prepared by the thermal shock method have a smaller thickness, and thus the percolation was reached at a lower volume fraction.
 3. The real relative dielectric constant ε’ is flat in the tested frequency range, indicating the absence of conduction effects.
 The relative dielectric constant increase over the neat polymer is significantly larger than that of the composites filled with spherical or irregular BaTiO3 particles reported in the literature [5-7]. For example, the dielectric constant of 20 vol% BaTiO3 fiber filled composites is 400% compared to that of the neat polymer.
 Using the same volume fraction of spherical BaTiO3 particle, the increases of the dielectric constant is about 200% [8]. This difference agrees with the prediction from the rule of mixtures.
 4. By adding 0.43 vol% of GPLs into the BaTiO3 fiber/PDMS composites, the dielectric constant was further increased to 13.7 and 18.6 for 10 vol% and 20 vol% BaTiO3 fiber composites respectively.
 3b.
 Adding 0.43 vol% of GPLs into the BaTiO3 fiber composites results in an increased dissipation factor which is, however, not higher than the pure GPL/PDMS composites.
 In the three-phase composites reported in the literature [14,16,17], a combination of conductive fillers and high dielectric constant ceramic fillers is generally used.
 Both BaTiO3 fiber composites and three-phase composites were tested under several field conditions below the breakdown strength of materials.
 5 shows the results for each composite under the highest measured field.
 The relative permittivity was calculated using an approach found in the literature [18]. The real dielectric constant for composites is listed in Table I.
 Depending on the microstructure and crystal morphology, the dielectric constant of barium titanate can either increase [19] or decrease [20] with increasing field strength.
 The large dielectric constant of BaTiO3 fibers leads to a field concentration in the polymer phase and reduced electric field in the ceramics.
 When the field in the ceramics is less than the “threshold field” [19], a linear dielectric constant is expected.
 The three-phase composite also has a larger loop area, compared to the BaTiO3 composite.
