Junction-Controlled Elasticity of Single-Walled Carbon Nanotube Dispersions in Acrylic Copolymer Gels and SolutionsOscillatory shear rheometry is used to study the mechanical response of single-walled carbon nanotubes dispersed in solutions of acrylic diblock or triblock copolymers in 2-ethyl-1-hexanol. Thermal transitions in the copolymer solutions provide a route for the easy processing of these composite materials, with excellent dispersion of the nanotubes as verified by near-infrared photoluminescence spectroscopy. The nanotube dispersions form elastic networks with properties that are controlled by the junction points between nanotubes, featuring a temperature-dependent elastic response that is controlled by the dynamic properties of the matrix copolymer solution. The data are consistent with the formation of micelle-like aggregates around the nanotubes. At low temperatures the core-forming poly(methyl methacrylate) blocks are glassy, and the overall mechanical response of the composite does not evolve with time. At higher temperatures the enhanced mobility of the core-forming blocks enables the junctions to achieve more intimate nanotube-nanotube contact, and the composite modulus increases with time. These aging effects are observed in both diblock and triblock copolymer solutions but are partially reversed in the triblock solutions by cooling through the gel transition of the triblock copolymer. This result is attributed to the generation of internal stresses during gelation and the ability of these stresses to break or weaken the nanotube junctions. ['Single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWNTs) have many useful properties including high tensile strength, modulus, electrical conductivity, and thermal conductivity.
1–3 Many of these properties have been predicted since nanotubes were first observed4 and motivate their use as fillers in nanocomposite materials.
 These applications require that the nanotubes be well dispersed, but obtaining good dispersion of either single-walled or multiwalled tubes remains a significant challenge.
 Many methods have been introduced for dispersing SWNTs in a continuous matrix, once they have been separated from the bundles in which they reside after synthesis.
5 These methods include chemical functionalization,6–9 wrapping with DNA10–12 or with other polymers,13–15 and the use of various charged surfactant molecules12 and block copolymers.
16 These methods are necessary because the nanotubes themselves are not soluble in aqueous or organic solvents.
 In fact, there are very strong interactions between nanotubes in bundles, on the order of 40 kBT/nm, though those interactions have a relatively short range, with a length scale of several nanometers.
16 Methods for characterizing the resulting dispersion include small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS),17,18 small-angle neutron scattering (SANS),5,19–23 near-infrared photoluminescence spectroscopy (NIR-PLS),5,12 optical absorption spectroscopy,5,10,12 and Raman scattering.
5,16,24–26 A recent thorough study of dispersion conducted by Fagan et al. points to SANS and NIR-PLS as the best techniques for studying dispersion.
5 In this previous study, the SWNTs were wrapped with single-stranded DNA and stabilized in poly(acrylic acid) solutions.
 The degree of aggregation was controlled by varying the solution pH.
 Because nanotubes have very large aspect ratios, even a welldispersed system with a low nanotube volume fraction will have a large number of nanotube contacts.
 Furthermore, because the nanotubes have relatively high bending moduli, the mechanical properties of dispersions are often controlled by the torsional stiffness of the junctions.
27 This stiffness will be affected by the molecules that are used to create the dispersion, and as a result end up at the nanotube junctions, in ways that are not currently well understood or controlled.
 In this paper we address these issues with a model system consisting of SWNTs in solutions of acrylic diblock or triblock copolymers.
 We have been able to achieve and characterize a similar state of dispersion to the high levels achieved by Fagan et al.5 In addition, the observed temperature dependence of the mechanical response of the diblock solutions confirms the notion that the composite response is controlled by the mechanical properties of the junctions.
 Finally, the gelation of the triblock-based systems provides a significant advantage from a processing standpoint, relative to other SWNT copolymer dispersions.
16 This study focuses on a poly(methyl methacrylate)-b-poly(nbutyl acrylate)-b-poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA-PnBAPMMA) triblock copolymer and two diblock copolymers PMMA-PnBA and poly(methyl methacrylate)-b-poly(tert-butyl acrylate) (PMMA-PtBA) in 2-ethyl-1-hexanol. The triblock copolymer forms a highly elastic gel upon cooling.
28,29 We utilize a polymer volume fraction of 0.15 (φP = 0.15) which is readily dissolved in solvent at high temperatures.
 The PMMA blocks are the least soluble of the three types of polymer, PnBA and PtBA have similar solubilities, and all of these polymers are soluble at high temperatures.
 When the polymer solution is cooled, the PMMA blocks have a less favorable interaction with the solvent and tend to aggregate.
 The tendency to form these aggregates depends on the length of the PMMA block.
28 If the PMMA block length is sufficiently long, PMMA-PnBA or PMMA-PtBA diblocks form micelles in alcohols at temperatures below the critical micelle temperature (cmt)30 (Figure 1A). Upon further cooling, the glass transition temperature (Tg) of the PMMA aggregates is crossed.
 The net result is very strong temperature dependence of the exchange time for PMMA blocks in and out of a micelle.
 At low temperatures the exchange of PMMA blocks between micelles is completely suppressed.
 This thermal transition between a solution of isolated diblock copolymer molecules at elevated temperatures and a suspension of fixed micelles at low temperatures is completely thermoreversible.
 A triblock copolymer with a PnBA midblock and sufficiently long PMMA end blocks undergoes a similar transition to that of the diblock.
 The distinguishing feature of the triblock copolymers is that the PMMA aggregates are linked to one another by the PnBA midblocks (Figure 1B). As a result, the triblock undergoes a thermoreversible physical gelation process when cooled, changing from a low-viscosity liquid to an elastic solid.
28 In this study, SWNTs are dispersed in the copolymer/solvent systems described above via sonication (Figure 1C), and their rheological properties are studied with oscillatory shear rheometry at different temperatures.
 Near-infrared photoluminescence spectroscopy is used to characterize the state of the SWNT dispersions.
 These systems enable us to relate the mechanical properties of the composite materials to the known thermal response of the block copolymer solutions.
 For the triblock copolymer solutions we are able to separate the mechanical response due to the nanotube network itself, observed at high temperatures, from the elastic response of the triblock gel, which is observed only at low temperatures.
 Because the diblock copolymer solutions do not have an elastic character at any temperature, these systems provide a means for studying the effects of nanotube junction mechanics on the overall response of the composite materials.
 An understanding of the junction properties is also necessary when designing nanocomposites with the desired electrical properties because these properties will be strongly affected by the presence of insulating copolymer at the junctions between conducting nanotubes.
 '].
 The gel transition for a triblock copolymer solution with no nanotubes (wNT = 0) is illustrated in Figure 2 in the form of a temperature sweep at constant frequency and strain under small-angle oscillatory shear.
 The gelation transition can be defined rheologically as the crossover point (see Figure 2) and is denoted as the gel temperature (TGEL). This rheologically defined gel temperature is below the critical micelle temperature and corresponds to the temperature where the exchange time for the PMMA blocks within different micellar aggregates is comparable to the inverse of the experimental frequency.
28 The diblock solutions cannot form gels in the same way as the triblock solutions because the molecular architecture does not allow for bridging of the micellar aggregates.
 Nevertheless, there is still a rheological signature of micellization for the solutions of diblock 2. Because the diblock copolymer solutions have very little elastic character, we plot the temperature dependence of the zero shear viscosity (η0) rather than the temperature dependence of the storage and loss moduli at a fixed frequency.
 This temperature dependence is plotted in Figure 3 for pure 2-ethyl-1-hexanol and for the solutions of diblock 1 and diblock 2. A rheological signature of micelle formation in diblock 2 is observed near 60 °C, with a marked increase in viscosity observed at lower temperatures.
 The viscosity of the diblock 1 solution, however, has a temperature dependence that closely mirrors the temperature dependence of the solvent viscosity over the entire temperature range between 0 and 100 °C.
 There is no clear rheological signature of micellization for diblock 1. The small-angle X-ray scattering results are also consistent with the notion that the diblock 1 solution is not micellar at room temperature.
 This result is illustrated in Figure 4, which shows a comparison of the SAXS patterns for the diblock 1 and diblock 2 solutions.
 The scattering behavior for the diblock 2 solution is similar to the behavior observed for the gel-forming triblock solution.
28 The characteristic features representative of scattering from the ordered PMMA domains that form below the cmt are not observed in the diblock 1 solutions.
 The relevant structural characteristic of diblock 1 is that its PMMA block length (4900 g/mol) is significantly lower than the PMMA block length for diblock 2 (12 000 g/mol) or the triblock (8900 g/mol). As a result, the overall insolubility of the PMMA block is not large enough for micelles to form.
28 ##Composite Rheology.
 When SWNTs are added to the triblock copolymer/solvent mixture and sonicated, there is a new rheological signature observed at high temperatures (Figure 5). For wNT = 0, G′ is significantly less than G′′ above TGEL (as in Figure 2). The addition of nanotubes results in an elastic response, with G′ > G′′ for temperatures up to at least 100 °C.
 The data in Figure 5 were obtained by cooling the sample first, and then heating, as indicated by the arrows in the figure.
 At temperatures below about 45 °C the response is dominated by gelation of the triblock copolymer, and no substantial difference is observed between heating and cooling.
 At temperatures above 60 °C, where the elasticity is dominated by the nanotube network, we see an interesting difference between the heating and cooling curves.
 During the initial cooling sequence G′ increases as the temperature is decreased from 100 to 60 °C.
 Upon continued cooling we observe the gel formation of the triblock copolymer with a corresponding 1000-fold increase in the modulus.
 After temperature equilibration in the sample at 0 °C for 10 min the composite is then heated back to 100 at 1 °C/min.
 At 60 °C the modulus of the nanotube/gel composite is actually less than it was during the cooling step, indicating that some structural rearrangement of the nanotube network has occurred during the gel formation and gel disordering cycle.
 In order to rule out the possibility that the applied oscillatory shear was itself affecting the network structure, we conducted experiments where the system was probed intermittently while the temperature was held constant at 85 °C.
 In Figure 6 we plot the rheological data as a function of time during successive heating and cooling cycles.
 The value of the hightemperature storage modulus that we attribute to the formation of the nanotube network increases with increasing SWNT concentration, as illustrated by the temperature ramp data shown in Figure 7. ###SWNT/Diblock Composites.
 Figures 8 and 9, which have wNT = 1.2 × 10-3 and utilize matrix solutions of diblocks 1 and 2, respectively, show data from temperature cycles identical to those used to generate the triblock data in Figure 6. The storage modulus increases significantly on cooling for both diblock composite samples.
 This result further confirms our hypothesis that the formation of the polymer gel network in the triblock-based system forces the nanotube network apart and is responsible for the modulus decrease illustrated in Figures 5 and 6. The use of both diblock copolymers also illustrates the relationship of the elastic properties of the nanotube network to the internal structure and related dynamic properties of the base matrix solution.
 As shown in Figure 10, the temperature dependence of the storage modulus of the nanotube networks correlates with the temperature dependence of the viscosity of the matrix diblock copolymer solution.
 For the composite based on the diblock 2 matrix solution a signature of micellization is observed as an increase in the storage modulus at ∼55 °C.
 No corresponding signature is observed for the composite based on the diblock 1 matrix solution, a result that is consistent with the absence of a micelle transition in this solution.
 In order to study the state of dispersion, photoluminescence spectra were collected from the diblock 1 sample with wNT = 1.2 × 10-3. Photoluminescence has been used previously to examine the dispersion of surfactant-stabilized SWNT systems.
5,11,12 The peaks in the contour plot shown in Figure 11 correspond to tubes with the chiralities (m,n) listed in Table 2. On average, the peaks have been red-shifted in the emission and excitation wavelengths by 14 and 6 nm, respectively, in relation to the van Hove optical transitions predicted by Weisman et al.31 The location of these peaks is quite similar to the locations presented by Fagan et al.,5 who also used SWNT purchased from CNI.
