Morphologically dependent alternating-current and direct-current breakdown strength in silica–polypropylene nanocompositesIn this article, we report the synthesis of a new bimodal surface ligand morphology on silica nanoparticles. Combining grafting-to and grafting-from approaches, in this study, we demonstrated the efficacy of anthracene surface modification for improving the dielectric breakdown strength (DBS) under alternating-current and direct-current conditions and that of a matrix-compatible polymer brush for controlling the nanofiller (NF) dispersion. Ligand-modified spherical colloidal SiO2 nanoparticles (~14 nm in diameter) were mixed into polypropylene, and the resulting dispersion was improved over the unmodified particles, as shown with transmission electron microscopy. The results suggest that the electronic structure of the anthracene-modified particle surface was critical to the improvement in DBS. In addition, the DBS of the composite was shown to depend on the dispersion state of the filler and the mode of stress; this indicated that the individually dispersed nanoparticles were not necessarily the optimal morphology for all stress conditions. Additionally, the precise nature of the matrix-compatible brush was less important than the NF dispersion it produced. The bimodal grafted architectural design has provided a promising solution for the control of the dispersion and surface properties, especially for high-molecular-weight polymer matrices. KEYWORDS: composites; dielectric materials; nanotechnology; polypropylene ['High-voltage capacitors are an enabling technology for highvoltage power transmission.
1 Inorganic nanofillers (NFs) have become an area of focus for use in insulating polymer composites because of the useful properties they exhibit.
2–6 The dispersion of NFs is difficult to control, especially when one scales up from laboratory to industrial processing.
7,8 Agglomeration is typically driven by the hydrophilic nature of the NF or the use of surface modifiers to improve properties9 that are enthalpically incompatible with the matrix.
 In this study, a surface modification method was used to independently control the dispersion and dielectric properties through the use of two populations of surface ligands: one population was small molecules chosen to enhance the highvoltage performance, and one population was a longer matrixcompatible brush to control dispersion.
 Although short-molecule surface modification can reduce the filler–matrix enthalpic incompatibility and lead to a relatively good dispersion,10 the filler interaction with the matrix is limited to van der Waals forces, and the choice of ligand is limited to those enthalpically compatible with the matrix.
 To add functionality to the filler surface with short molecules, a longer polymer brush is needed to shield the enthalpic effects and can also control entropic penalties within high-molecular-weight polymer matrices.
11–13 These bimodal brushes have been shown to be effective for controlling dispersion and adding functionality.
 14–16 Models based on these principles have been effective for predicting nanoparticle dispersion states in homopolymer melts.
14,15,17 Electron avalanches were assumed here to be the dominant mechanism for the dielectric breakdown of polypropylene, as in other olefins.
18 Avalanches occur when, under high field, electrons injected from the electrode gain sufficient energy for impact ionization; this leads to charge multiplication.
19,20 Dielectric breakdown strength (DBS) can be improved, therefore, through the introduction of extrinsic trap states, such as those available on the NF, which slows charge mobility and buildup.
21–23 Previous work from our group demonstrated that when anthracene was grafted to NFs, the DBS of the epoxy improved when the NFs were well dispersed.
16 Although some studies have indicated that it also may improve DBS as a free additive in some systems,18,24 this study indicated that free anthracene molecules reduced DBS in polypropylene, and this was likely related to increased conductivity.
25 The DBS improvements seen in systems with anthracene have been attributed to trap states for electrons associated with the anthracene molecule, be they at an NF surface (in this study) or in phaseseparated regions.
 These trap states have been hypothesized to allow energetic electrons to fall into lower energy states and reduce impact ionization events; this would reduce the ability of avalanches to reach a critical size.
 Thus, in addition to the trapping functionality introduced by anthracene, dispersion control is critical, as an avalanche must encounter a filler particle before it reaches a critical size.
 Seitz26 suggested that avalanches can reach a critical size around 200 nm, and this provides a threshold for an interparticle spacing that should be attained for the composite to experience improvements in DBS.
 Finally, bimodally modified oxide fillers have also shown promise when they were used to improve the permittivity and energy storage in polymer matrix composites.
27 In this study, anthracene surface groups were grafted onto the nanoparticle surface for its electronic properties, and a methacrylate backbone bottle-brush polymer with stearyl side chains [poly(stearyl methacrylate) (PSMA)] was chosen for its ease of synthesis and the compatibility that olefinic side chains created between the brush and the matrix.
 The dielectric breakdown performance of the composites with a range of dispersions was then investigated under alternating-current (ac) and directcurrent (dc) conditions, and measurements of the permittivity were taken.
 Samples were prepared for ac voltage endurance testing with neat polypropylene from the best performing NC loaded with PSMA and anthracene-surface-modified silica nanoparticles.
'].
29 TEM images of the PSMA-modified silica-filled composites are grouped in Figure 2 in order of the qualitatively improved dispersion.
 Micrographs of PSMA2 displayed elongated agglomerates of silica oriented approximately parallel to the film surface and to each other.
 Although the sample was still aligned, the aspect ratio was reduced compared to PSMA2. PSMA1 displayed relatively well-dispersed NFs with a greater degree of smaller, isolated agglomerates and some individual nanoparticles.
 Figure 3 displays the micrographs and corresponding ac DBS data from the composites with PSMA and anthracene-surface-modified NFs.
 Figure 4 shows the 63% failure probability DBS results from the aforementioned composite systems under dc and ac conditions.
 The effect of the elongated agglomerates observed in PSMA2 and Anth2 was reversed under dc conditions.
 These results and percentage changes in the 63% Weibull scale parameter are collected in Table III (shown later). Permittivity The relative permittivity of the composites compared to the neat polymer baseline is displayed in Figure 5. The composites comprised of silica nanoparticles grafted with PSMA demonstrated a peak in the imaginary part of the permittivity, regardless of dispersion.
 Additionally, while poorly dispersed silica particles increased low-frequency losses, the same morphologies with anthracene showed a reduction in the imaginary permittivity below 1 Hz compared to the systems without anthracene.
 These are compared in Figure 6 to a neat polypropylene control, whereas the values were in agreement with the literature.
31'].
